	      

	      Afghan Hound History and Domestication
The Afghan Hound is thought to be one of the oldest of all domestic Dog breeds, with the first records of the Afghan Hound dating back to 4,000 BC. The fast and agile nature of this Dog meant that they made excellent hunters of small game in their native Afghanistan, most commonly hunting Deer, Goats, Gazelle and Wild Boar along with seeing off larger predators such as Wolves and Snow Leopards. Their gentle nature also made this elegant sight-hound a doting shepherd, fearlessly protecting livestock from hungry predators. This beautiful but gently natured watchdog was brought to Britain in the early 1920s and it's entry to the USA followed in 1926. The elegance of the Afghan Hound meant that they quickly became highly desirable Dogs, both as pets and for show.  
Afghan Hound Physical Characteristics
The most characteristic feature of this breed is the long, silky fur that covers the Afghan Hound's body, most notably on the top of it's head. Afghan Hounds are most commonly black or golden in colour although a number of colour variations now exist within the breed including brown, grey and white. The elongated head and muzzle of the Afghan Hound make them easily identifiable, along with their high hip-bones which gave the ancestors of the modern day Afghan Hound their reputation for speed and agility. The face of the Afghan Hound is usually a black-coloured mask, with a black nose and dark almond shaped eyes. The colour of the facial mask is known to vary although white is said to be discouraged as it is seen as a sign of poor breeding. They are fairly large Dogs standing on average at 68cm in height.     
Afghan Hound Behaviour and Temperament
The temperament of the typical Afghan Hound tends to be aloof and dignified, but happy and intelligent and generally relatively playful. However, the Afghan Hound has a reputation among Dog trainers for having a relatively slow obedience intelligence possibly due to their slightly stubborn nature. The Afghan Hound has a leaning towards independence and owners should not be surprised if their Dog sometimes chooses to ignore commands. The modern day Afghan Hound is said to have many Cat-like tendencies, loving to laze around the house and is generally much slower than it's Middle Eastern ancestors. The Afghan Hound is seldom used for hunting in Europe and America today where they are one of the most popular domestic Dog breeds.  
Afghan Hound Breeding
The Afghan Hound was first bred in the ancient deserts of Egypt and Afghanistan, where they were primarily used as hunters. The Afghan Hound was a favoured choice of Dog as they were able to outrun the majority of other animals, whilst being courageous hunters and were capable of thinking independently, often able to keep larger prey from escaping until the hunter arrived. The first domestic breeding of the modern day Afghan Hound was by an English officer station near Kabul, who later brought the Afghan Hound to the UK in 1925. A year later, the Afghan Hound was taken to America where it's beauty and elegance made it one of the most prestigious breeds of domestic Dog in the States.The average litter size of the Afghan Hound is around 7 puppies, which are blind when first born.  
Afghan Hound Interesting Facts and Features
When the Afghan Hound breed was first brought to America, it's naturally independent nature led to it gaining a reputation for being untrustworthy. Today however, many of these traits are not quite as prominent in the breed as they once were. The high hip-bones of this Dog are thought to be one of the main reasons why the Afghan Hound once had a reputation for speed, making them faster at running than most other domestic Dog breeds today. The long topknot on the top of it's head, along with the small ring near the end of it's tail, are two of the most distinctive features of the mature Afghan Hound. They originate from the mountains of Afghanistan and their unique appearance provides these Dogs with vital advantages during the cold winters and hot summers. Although beautiful, this long fur takes daily care and maintenance to ensure that the coat remains healthy.

		 	      

	      African Wild Dog Classification and Evolution
The African Wild Dog (also known as the Painted Dog and the Cape Hunting Dog) is a medium sized species of canine found across sub-Saharan Africa. The African Wild Dog is most easily identified from both domestic and other wild Dogs by their brightly mottled fur, with it's name in Latin aptly meaning painted wolf. The African Wild Dog is said to be the most sociable of all the canines, living in packs of around 30 individuals. Sadly however, this highly intelligent and sociable animal is severely under threat in much of it's natural habitat, primarily due to habitat loss and having been hunted by Humans.  
African Wild Dog Anatomy and Appearance
The most distinctive feature of the African Wild Dog is it's beautifully mottled fur which makes this canine very easy to identify. The fur of the African Wild Dog is red, black, white, brown and yellow in colour with the random pattern of colours being unique to each individual. It is also thought to act as a type of camouflage, helping the African Wild Dog to blend into it's surroundings. The African Wild Dog also has large ears, a long muzzle and long legs, with four toes on each foot. This is one of the biggest differences between the African Wild Dog and other canine species as they have five. They also have a large stomach and a long, large intestine which aids them in more effectively absorbing moisture from their food.  
African Wild Dog Distribution and Habitat
African Wild Dogs are found naturally roaming the deserts, open-plains and arid savanna of sub-Saharan Africa where the range of the African Wild Dog has decreased rapidly. It is thought that the African Wild Dog was once found in nearly 40 different African countries but that number is much lower today, at between 10 and 25. Now most African Wild Dog populations are primarily restricted to National Parks across southern Africa, with the highest populations found in Botswana and Zimbabwe. African Wild Dogs require large territories to support the pack, with pack sizes having in fact dropped in number with their decreasing home-ranges.  
African Wild Dog Behaviour and Lifestyle
African Wild Dogs are highly sociable animals that gather in packs of generally between 10 and 30 individuals. There is a strict ranking system within the pack, led by the dominant breeding pair. They are the world's most sociable Dogs and do everything as a group, from hunting for and sharing food, to helping sick members and assisting in raising young. African Wild Dogs communicate between one another through touch, movement and sound. Pack members are incredibly close, gathering together before a hunt to nose and lick each other, whilst wagging their tails and making high-pitched noises. African Wild Dogs lead a crepuscular lifestyle meaning that they are most active during dawn and dusk.  
African Wild Dog Reproduction and Life Cycles
In African Wild Dog packs, there is usually only one breeding pair, which are the dominant male and female members. After a gestation period of around 70 days, the female African Wild Dog gives birth to between 2 and 20 pups in a den, which she remains in with her young for the first few weeks, relying on the other pack members to provide her with food. The African Wild Dog cubs leave the den at between 2 and 3 months old and are fed and cared for by the entire pack until they are old enough to become independent and generally leave to join or start another African Wild Dog pack. It is thought that the more looked after the pups are, the higher their chances of survival.  
African Wild Dog Diet and Prey
The African Wild Dog is a carnivorous and opportunistic predator, hunting larger animals on the African plains in their big groups. African Wild Dogs primarily prey on large mammals such as Warthogs and numerous species of Antelope, supplementing their diet with Rodents, Lizards, Birds and Insects. They are even known to hunt much larger herbivores that have been made vulnerable through sickness or injury, such as Wildebeest. Although the African Wild Dog's prey is often much faster, the chase can last for miles, and it is this Dog's stamina and perseverance that makes them so successful, along with their ability to maintain their speed. Hunting as a pack also means that the African Wild Dogs can easily corner their prey.  
African Wild Dog Predators and Threats
Due to the relatively large size and dominant nature of the African Wild Dog and their pack, they have few natural predators within their native habitats. Lions and Hyenas have been known on occasion, to prey on African Wild Dog individuals that have been separated from the rest of the group. One of the biggest threats to the African Wild Dog are farmers that hunt and kill the African Wild Dog in fear that they are preying on their livestock. A drastic decline in their natural habitats has also pushed the remaining African Wild Dog populations into small pockets of their native regions, and they are now most commonly found within National Parks.  
African Wild Dog Interesting Facts and Features
The long large intestine of the African Wild Dog means that they have a very efficient system for absorbing as much moisture from their food as possible. This gives these canines an advantage in such arid climates as they do not need to find such a regular supply of water. African Wild Dogs are therefore able to go for long periods of time without needing to drink. Unlike many other carnivores, African Wild Dogs kill their prey by starting to bite it when it is still alive. Although this may sound cruel, the animal actually dies more quickly and less painfully than if it was killed in the generally preferred way.  
African Wild Dog Relationship with Humans
African Wild Dog populations have been declining rapidly across the southern African countries mainly due to loss of much of their natural habitat and the fact that they are commonly hunted by farmers in particular. The slightly savage nature of the African Wild Dog has led to a great deal of superstition regarding it, with locals having almost wiped out entire populations in certain areas. The loss of their historical ranges generally due to growing Human settlements has also led to drastic declines in populations throughout much of their environment. Although the majority of the African Wild Dog population is today confined to National Parks, they tend to require much larger territories and come into conflict with Humans when they leave these protected areas.  
African Wild Dog Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the African Wild Dog is listed as an Endangered species as African Wild Dog population numbers have been rapidly declining, particularly in recent years. There are thought to be less than 5,000 individuals left roaming sub-Saharan Africa today, with numbers still declining. Hunting, habitat loss and the fact that they are particularly vulnerable to the spread of disease by livestock, are the main causes for the continent's African Wild Dog loss.


		 	      

	      Affenpinscher History and Domestication
The Affenpinscher is thought to be one of the oldest toy Dog breeds, appearing in Germany during the 17th century. Although the Affenpinscher then was bigger than the Dog we know today, it is thought that the ancestors of these Dogs were around much earlier, being depicted in paintings as early as the 15th century. The Affenpinscher was first bred and kept as a form of pest control in kitchens and stables, as these active Terriers proved effective at keeping rat numbers down. By the late 1800s, the breed was fully established in southern Germany and was a favoured Dog of the rich and famous. The Affenpinscher was imported in the USA after the second world war, where today, more Affenpinschers exist than anywhere else in the world combined.   
Affenpinscher Physical Characteristics
Affenpinschers have a distinctive appearance that is often associated with terriers. The small body of the Affenpinscher is covered in coarse, wiry fur that tends to be either black or grey in colour, and is actually quite long for such a small Dog. The head of the Affenpinscher is domed, with a short muzzle, small ears and dark eyes and it's trade-mark "monkey like" expression is exaggerated by it's protruding lower lip. Their tails are relatively short. Historically, the tail of the Affenpinscher would have been docked, and ancestors of the breed today were found in variety of colours including red, fawn and beige and would have been larger in size.   
Affenpinscher Behaviour and Temperament
Despite it's distinctive Terrier-like appearance, the Affenpinscher is different from other Terriers, as they are actually part of the pinscher-schnauzer subgroup. These characteristics mean that not only is the Affenpinscher small, active and loyal but they also often get along well with other Dogs and pets. Some of the most distinctive traits of the Affenpinscher are that they are active, adventurous, curious, and stubborn, but they are also fun-loving and playful. The breed is confident, lively and affectionate towards family members, but their loyalty towards them also makes them very protective of them. Affenpinschers can be somewhat territorial when it comes to their toys and food, so they are not recommended for households with very small children. This Dog is generally quiet but can become very agitated if it feels under threat, showing no fear toward any aggressor.   
Affenpinscher Breeding
The Affenpinscher breed that we know today was first bred in Germany in the late 17th century as a household ratter. These Dogs would have been at least 30cm tall (some believe them to be ever larger) making them significantly bigger than the Dog of today. Inter-breeding with other domestic breeds during the early 1900s gave rise to the smaller sized and flatter-faced Affenpinscher that was imported into America a number of decades later. Despite there being a number of this breed in the USA, the Affenpinscher has never really become a popular Dog choice in Britain, with their being less than 30 breeders in the country today. On average, Affenpinschers produce only a few puppies per litter, which are blind when first born.  
Affenpinscher Interesting Facts and Features
The Affenpinscher was first named in 17th century Germany as Zwergaffenpinscher which literally translated means little-monkey-dog, due to it's curious Monkey-like expression. However, when Affenpinscher numbers were in demise during the war, the Dog was bred with other small breeds including the Brussels Griffon, leading to the desired breed of today. Curiously, the Affenpinscher had been used years before in the creation of the Brussels Griffon, which when re-bred with the Affenpinscher, led to a shorter muzzle and more prominent chin. As with nearly every breed of domestic Dog, there a number of health problems associated with the Affenpinscher. The most common ailments are caused by such an inquisitive and active nature, often leading to a number of cuts and bumps along with broken bones.


		 	      

	      African Bush Elephant Classification and Evolution
The African Bush Elephant is the largest of all living creatures on land today, with some individuals growing to weigh more than 6 tons. The Elephant is thought to have been named after the Greek word for ivory, meaning that Elephants were named for their uniquely long tusks. Although many of the ancestors of the African Bush Elephant became extinct during the last ice-age (including the Woolly Mammoth), there are three distinct species of Elephant remaining today which are the Asian Elephant (of which there are a number of sub-species), the African Bush Elephant and the African Forest Elephant.  Although these two Elephant species are very similar, the African Bush Elephant is considered to be generally larger than the African Forest Elephant, which has rounder ears and straighter tusks.  
African Bush Elephant Anatomy and Appearance
The African Bush Elephant is the largest known land mammal on Earth, with male African Bush Elephants reaching up to 3.5 metres in height and the females being slightly smaller at around 3 metres tall. The body of the African Bush Elephants can also grow to between 6 and 7 meters long. The tusks of an African Bush Elephant can be nearly 2.5 meters in length and generally weigh between 50 and 100 pounds, which is about the same as a small adult Human. African Bush Elephants have four molar teeth each weighing about 5.0 kg and measuring about 12 inches long. As the front pair of molars in the mouth of the African Bush Elephant wear down and drop out in pieces, the back pair shift forward and two new molars emerge in the back of the African Bush Elephant's mouth. African Bush Elephants replace their teeth six times during their lives but when the African Bush Elephant is between 40 to 60 years old, it no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation, which is sadly a common cause of death of Elephants in the African wilderness.  
African Bush Elephant Distribution and Habitat
Although the historical range of it's ancestors ranged right into the Arctic Circle, today the African Bush Elephant is mainly found in central and southern Africa in nomadic herds that wander the plains and grasslands of Africa grazing for food and searching for waterholes. Unlike the slightly smaller African Forest Elephant, the African Bush Elephant inhabits the grassy savanna plains and shrub-land of the African continent in groups that contain mothers and their calves. Generally African Bush Elephant herds contains around 10 individuals but it is not uncommon for family groups to join together, forming a clan which can contains over 1,000 Elephants. This very social lifestyle means that the African Bush Elephants are less vulnerable on the open African plains.   
African Bush Elephant Behaviour and Lifestyle
Not only is the African Bush Elephant an incredibly sociable mammal but it is also a very active one. African Bush Elephants are nomadic animals meaning that they are constantly on the move in search of food, so moving within these family herds allows them to have greater protection both from predators and from the elements. The trunk of the African Bush Elephant is one of it's most distinguishing features and this extra long nose is not only flexible enough to gather and handle food but can also collect water. It's trunk, along with it's tusks can also be used to defend itself from predators such as Lions, and to fight with other male African Bush Elephants during the mating season. African Bush Elephants are also considered to be highly intelligent and emotional animals displaying behaviours that include giving and receiving love, caring deeply for the young and grieving for dead relatives.  
African Bush Elephant Reproduction and Life Cycles
African Bush Elephants tend to live relatively long lives, with the average life span being between 60 and 70 years, Female African Bush Elephants reach sexual maturity (are able to reproduce) after 10 or 11 years, but are thought to be most fertile between the ages of 25 and 45. Male African Bush Elephants however, often don't reach sexual maturity until they are nearly 20 years old. After mating and a gestation period of up to 2 years, the female African Bush Elephant gives birth to a single calf (twins have been known but are extremely rare). The African Bush Elephant calf is nursed for 2 years but will remain under the guidance and protection of the herd until it is old enough to support itself (around 6 years old). It is at this point that the tusks of the African Bush Elephant calf will be starting to grow.  
African Bush Elephant Diet and Prey
Despite it's immense size, the African Bush Elephant is a herbivorous mammal meaning that it survives on a diet that solely consists of plants and plant matter. The bulk of the African Bush Elephant's diet is comprised of leaves and branches that are stripped off the trees and bushes using it's trunk. The African Bush Elephant also grazes on fruits and grasses and uses it's immense tusks for digging for roots in the ground and to strip the bark of trees. Food is fed into it's mouth using the trunk, and the large, flat teeth of the African Bush Elephant are then the perfect tool for grinding the vegetation and course plants down so that they can then be more easily digested.  
African Bush Elephant Predators and Threats
The African Bush Elephant has no real natural predators to threaten its survival, mainly due to it's sheer size and the fact that African Bush Elephants often remain within the safety of the herd. African Bush Elephants are Africa's peaceful giants and can be seen co-inhabiting the African wilderness with other large mammals and birds, without problem. In the animal world, Lions and Hyenas may occasionally be able to pick off a young African Bush Elephant that has been separated from it's mother and have also been known to attack adults that are old and sick and therefore more vulnerable. Humans that poach the African Bush Elephants for their ivory tusks are the biggest threat to their survival along with habitat loss across the continent.   
African Bush Elephant Interesting Facts and Features
In the early 19th century, the story of the African Bush Elephant was very different with their being up to 5 million individuals thought to have been roaming the African continent. However due to the increased demand for ivory, Africa's Bush Elephant population is thought to have fallen as much as 85% in some areas. The large ears of the African Bush Elephant are said by some to be shaped somewhat like Africa, but these large flaps of skin are not just for hearing, they are a vital tool in keeping the Elephant cool in the African heat. Like many of the herbivores found throughout Africa, the calves can walk at birth to maximise their chances of survival. An adult African Bush Elephant can drink up to 50 gallons of water every day, and is able to take 1.5 gallons of water into their trunks at at time.  
African Bush Elephant Relationship with Humans
Sadly, due to an increase of outside interest in Africa and its exotic wonders (particularly towards the mid 20th century), the African Bush Elephant population took a devastating decline towards extinction. After having been brutally killed by poachers for years for their ivory, African Bush Elephants had vanished from much of their native habitat. In 1989 a worldwide elephant ivory hunting ban fell into place, after the populations had dropped so dramatically across the continent. In northern and central parts of Africa, the African Bush Elephant is now rare and confined to protected areas, and although the story is similar in the south, South African Elephant populations are thought to be doing better with an estimated 300,000 individuals in the region.  
African Bush Elephant Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, although recovering, African Bush Elephant populations are still threatened from increasing levels of illegal poaching and habitat destruction. Deforestation in the African Bush Elephant's territory means that the African Bush Elephants lose both their food and shelter making them more vulnerable in the wild. Despite the ban, African Bush Elephants are also constantly threatened by poachers hunting the elephants for their ivory tusks.





		 	      

	      The Appenzeller dog is a herding dog by nature and therefore Appenzellers always require something to do. In a farm environment, they might nip at the sheep or cattle to herd them. Without sufficient exercise, they could become restless, so plenty of toys, space, exercise, and attention should be provided.  

The Appenzeller dog is part of the Sennenhund family of dogs that include the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, the Bernese Mountain Dog, the Appenzeller and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog, all of which are similar in colour and temperament but vary in size. The Sennenhund dogs were originally used to assist in general farmwork but they are also used as mountain rescue dogs in some areas of the Swiss mountains today.  

The Appenzeller is one of the smaller breeds in the Sennenhund group of dogs with mature males growing to around 60 cm tall. The Appenzeller had a beautiful tri-coloured coat and a stockier build in comparison to similar breeds like the Bernese mountain dog.  

As with all large, very active working dogs, the Appenzeller breed should be well socialized early in life with other dogs and people and provided with regular activity and training if they are to be safely kept as a pet. According to the breed standard, the dogs are lively, high spirited, and suspicious of strangers.		 	      

	      African Clawed Frog Classification and Evolution
The African Clawed Frog is a large species of flat Frog that is primarily found dwelling at the bottom of lakes and rivers. The African Clawed Frog is also known as the Platanna and has a number of very unique features that mean it is specially adapted to it's habitat. The African Clawed Frog is thought to have originated in South Africa, and is today found naturally across the African continent. The African Clawed Frog has also been introduced to the Americas and parts of Europe.  
African Clawed Frog Anatomy and Appearance
The average adult African Clawed Frog grows to about 12 cm in length, and weighs around 200g. The African Clawed Frog is often a greenish, grey colour although other colours of the African Clawed Frog are not uncommon (such as albino). The colour of the African Clawed Frog's skin, along with it's mottled pattern, gives it more camouflage from hungry predators. They have a line of stitch-marks along either side of their bodies which act as sense organs to detect prey in the surrounding water. Their eyes and nose are located on top of the head enabling them to see and breathe but without being too visible.  
African Clawed Frog Distribution and Habitat
The African Clawed Frog is most commonly found in eastern and southern Africa, along the African Rift Valley where they prefer stagnant waters to fast-flowing streams. African Clawed Frogs are bottom-dwelling animals and will only leave the safety of the water if they are forced to migrate. They inhabit warm shallow creeks and rivers during the summer and move into the flooded forests during the rainy season. Due to introduction by Humans, the African Clawed Frog can now be found in numerous freshwater habitats outside of Africa where they can be a very invasive species.   
African Clawed Frog Behaviour and Lifestyle
The African Clawed Frog spends its whole life in water, except for poking its head up to the surface from time to time to breathe. The African Clawed Frog can swim at astonishing speeds sideways, backwards, forwards, up and down, and in all other directions. It is a ferocious predator and once food has been spotted, the African Clawed Frog then catches it's prey using it's claws, which shovel it into the African Clawed Frog's mouth. The African Clawed Frog has evolved very successfully as a bottom-dwelling animal, which means that it has greater protection from predators and a better choice of food.  
African Clawed Frog Reproduction and Life Cycles
Female African Clawed Frogs are often nearly double the size of the males, and are able to reproduce more than once a year. After mating, the female African Clawed Frog can lay thousands of eggs at a time on an underwater object, which are held together in the water by a jelly-like substance. After hatching, the African Clawed Frog tadpoles begin their life in the water until they grow legs and are able to venture out onto the river banks if need be. The African Clawed Frog is known to have a long lifespan for small aquatic animals, and can live to around 5 to 15 years in the wild. Some adult African Clawed Frogs have been recorded to live to nearly 30 years old in captivity.  
African Clawed Frog Diet and Prey
The African Clawed Frog is a carnivorous animal and an apex predator within it's underwater environment. The African Clawed Frog's main food is Water Bugs and small Fish but the African Clawed Frog is also known to eat it's own skin whenever it is shed. African Clawed Frogs also hunt other small invertebrates such as Insects, Spiders and Worms, which it scoops into it's mouth using it's clawed front feet. African Clawed Frogs in captivity have a much less varied diet which primarily consists of Worms.  
African Clawed Frog Predators and Threats
Due to its small size, the African Clawed Frog has a number of natural predators within its native environment, that occur both in and out of the water. Small mammals including Rodents, Cats and Dogs, and numerous Birds and Reptiles, all prey on the African Clawed Frog, but herons are their most common threat. By living on the muddy bottoms of lakes and rivers, the African Clawed Frog can remain safely hidden for much of the time, and only it's eyes and nose appear above the water-line when it surfaces. Although not as vulnerable as many other amphibians, the African Clawed Frog is also being threatened by water pollution.  
African Clawed Frog Relationship with Humans
Over the years, Humans have managed to find a number of uses for the African Clawed Frog in our day to day lives. The most notable (and probably cruellest) of these practises was the use of the African Clawed Frog females as a type of pregnancy test. The hormone produced by Human babies (passed on through the mother's urine) known as HCG, induces ovulation in the female African Clawed Frog. Humans also use them in laboratories worldwide for research and teaching. Habitat loss and water pollution caused by people nearby is also having a drastic effect on African Clawed Frog populations.  
African Clawed Frog Conservation Status and Life Today
Although the African Clawed Frog has been classified as being at Least Concern from imminent extinction, population numbers have fallen in certain areas due to deteriorating water quality. Elsewhere, African Clawed Frog populations around the world have often become non-native pests to the local plants and wildlife.



		 	      

	      African Forest Elephant Classification and Evolution
The African Forest Elephant is one of two Elephant subspecies found on the African continent. Although the African Forest Elephant is slightly smaller than the African Bush Elephant, it is still one of the largest animals found on land today. Although these two Elephant species are very similar, the African Forest Elephant is thought to have rounder ears and straighter tusks than the African Bush Elephant, and it has been also noted that the African Bush Elephant and the African Forest Elephant have a different number of toe nails. Until recently though, they were considered to be the same species.  
African Forest Elephant Anatomy and Appearance
The African Forest Elephant is the one of the largest known land mammals on Earth, with male African Forest Elephants reaching nearly 3 metres in height and the female African Forest Elephants around 2.5 metres. The tusks of an African Forest Elephant can grow to nearly 1.5 meters long and generally weigh between 50 and 100 pounds, which is about the same as a small adult Human. They are thinner, straighter and shorter than the tusks of the African Bush Elephant. African Forest Elephants have four molar teeth each weighing about 5.0 kg and measuring about 12 inches long. They have large rounded ears which are used both for hearing and to keep them cool.  
African Forest Elephant Distribution and Habitat
The African Forest Elephant mainly lives in central and southern Africa in nomadic herds that wander through the forests and grasslands of Africa grazing for food and searching for waterholes. They are most commonly founds in the tropical dense jungles, where their smaller size allows them to move through the thick vegetation more easily than the larger African Bush Elephant. African Forest Elephants are threatened throughout much of their natural habitat today mainly due to deforestation and climate change and have been pushed into smaller and smaller pockets of their native lands.  
African Forest Elephant Behaviour and Lifestyle
The African Forest Elephant mainly uses it's immense tusks for digging for roots in the ground and to strip the bark off trees. The African Forest Elephant also uses it's tusks to defend itself from predators such as Lions, and to fight with other male African Forest Elephants during the mating season. Males are generally fairly solitary but females and their young form small family groups known as herds. This allows the more vulnerable offspring to be more easily protected. African Forest Elephants communicate through a series of low-frequency calls which they are able to detect from a few kilometres away.  
African Forest Elephant Reproduction and Life Cycles
Female African Forest Elephants reach sexual maturity (are able to reproduce) after 10 or 11 years, and male African Forest Elephants often don't reach sexual maturity until they are nearly 20 years old. After a gestation period of up to 2 years, the female African Forest Elephant gives birth to a single calf (twins have been known but are extremely rare). The African Forest Elephant calf is nursed for 2 years and will remain with the herd until it is old enough to support itself. It is at this point that the tusks of the African Forest Elephant calf will be starting to grow.  
African Forest Elephant Diet and Prey
The African Forest Elephant is a herbivorous animal meaning that it only eats plants and other vegetation. They predominantly eat leaves and fruit from trees, herbs and low-lying shrubs. However, the front pair of molars in the mouth of the African Forest Elephant wear down and drop out in pieces, making the back pair shift forward and two new molars emerge in the back of the African Forest Elephant's mouth. African Forest Elephants replace their teeth six times during their lives but when the African Forest Elephant is about 40 to 60 years old, the African Forest Elephant no longer has teeth and will likely die of starvation, which is sadly a common cause of death in the African wilderness.  
African Forest Elephant Predators and Threats
The African Forest Elephant has no real natural predators to threaten its survival, mainly due to the African forest elephant's sheer size. However, it is not uncommon for large carnivores such as Lions and Hyenas to pick out a calf that has strayed from the herd or an adult that is more vulnerable from ill health or old age. African Forest Elephants are fairly docile animals and can be seen co-inhabiting in the African wilderness with other large mammals and birds, relatively peacefully. Deforestation and therefore loss of it's natural habitat is one of the biggest threats to the African Forest Elephant, along with poaching.  
African Forest Elephant Interesting Facts and Features
The tusks of the African Forest Elephant are pretty straight instead of curved to help them move through the thick jungle with greater ease. This, along with their pinkish tinge, has made the ivory of the African Forest Elephant's tusks in high demand on the black market. Despite African Forest Elephants being able to communicate with one another through a couple of miles of dense jungle, the sound they make is so low that it cannot be heard by Humans. They are an essential tool in the spreading of seeds throughout Africa's forests and are therefore vital to the running of their native eco-systems.  
African Forest Elephant Relationship with Humans
Sadly, due to an increase of outside interest in Africa and it's exotic wonders, the African Forest Elephant population took a devastating decline towards extinction. In 1989 a worldwide Elephant ivory hunting ban fell into place, meaning that the African Forest Elephant population has fortunately begun to recover. In 1980, there were an estimated 380,000 African Forest Elephants but due to growing Human populations in their native countries, numbers have fallen to 200,000. Deforestation of their habitats and the illegal poaching of the African Forest Elephant for their ivory are also to blame for their recent demise.  
African Forest Elephant Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, although slightly recovering in certain areas, African Forest Elephant populations are still threatened from increasing levels of illegal poaching and habitat destruction. Deforestation in the African Forest Elephant's territory means that the African Forest Elephants lose both their food and shelter making them more vulnerable in the wild. African Forest Elephants are also constantly threatened by poachers hunting the Elephants for their ivory tusks. They are now listed as an Endangered species.


		 	      

	      American Foxhound History and Domestication
The American Foxhound dates back to the 1700s, when they were bred from English Foxhounds and French Foxhounds by George Washington. Their most notable ancestors though are the English Foxhounds that arrived in North America in 1650 with the English settlers. Back then, hunters required a domestic breed that had similar physical characteristics to the English Foxhound, but one that was both faster and had a keener sense of smell than the already existing breeds. In the 17th century, the American Foxhound was most commonly used for seeking out the native people, before it later became a highly effective hunter of wild animals. American Foxhounds are kept both on their own and as pack animals, in groups that tend to contain between 10 and 20 individuals, primarily by hunters and farmers.    
American Foxhound Physical Characteristics
The American Foxhound is large breed of domestic Dog, growing to an average height of 63cm tall. They are long and lean animals, with straight, long legs and a narrow tail which curves slightly upwards. The American Foxhound has a short coat of coarse fur which is most commonly white, brown, tan, or black in colour, and is known to shed fairly regularly. The American Foxhound's long head is dome-shaped with large, wide-set eyes that are generally hazel or brown in colour. Their wide pendant-shaped ears lie flat on either side of their head, framing the American Foxhound's face. Despite being leaner than the English Foxhound, the American Foxhound's body is incredibly muscular, allowing it to pursue a chase with great stamina, speed and agility.  
American Foxhound Breeding
The American Foxhound was first bred in the 1700s by George Washington, by using what is believed to be a combination of the English Foxhound and the French Foxhound, which each had their own desirable traits. Hounds were primarily used by hunters and farmers to seek out animals and all have a very strong sense of smell. Washington however, required a breed that had an even keener sense of the smell than the current breeds, and also had incredible speed and stamina. Since then, the American Foxhound is still found throughout the United States but is thought to be most popular with hunters and farmers. Although they do make good companions, they are not particularly common household pets probably because of their high energy levels and the fact that their incredibly sensitive nose can lead them to become very stubborn.  
American Foxhound Interesting Facts and Features 
The American Foxhound was bred by the President after having received a gift of a French Foxhound. Having written about both the French and English Foxhounds in his journals on many occasions, the leaner, lighter and faster American Foxhound appeared soon afterwards and quickly became a popular choice among Hounds. Despite however, being one of the few domestic breeds native to North America, the American Foxhound is actually quite rare today with adoption levels of these Dogs being very low. The American Foxhound though is loved by owners, particularly for their special bark which consists of a loud, deep bark followed by a high-pitched howl. The bark of the American Foxhound is apparently so harmonious that is has appeared in songs. 
		 	      

	      American Coonhound History and Domestication
The American Coonhound (also commonly known as the Black and Tan Coonhound) is a large breed of domestic Dog that is native to North America. The American Coonhound is thought to have been developed by tribesmen in the mountains in the 1700s, who required a large Dog for both protection and to help with hunting. By crossing the Bloodhound with the Black and Tan Foxhound, a breed was created that was very large in size and had an immense sense of smell like the Bloodhound, but one that was also much quicker. One of the most common uses of the American Coonhound was to hunt generally small animals, particularly Raccoons, but they could also been trained to hunt much larger prey including Deer and even Bears.  
American Coonhound Physical Characteristics
Like the other breeds of Coonhound to which the American Coonhound is closely related, it is among the largest breeds of domestic Dog found in America today. Their large and muscular body means that although they can indeed catch and kill prey, they are better known for their incredible endurance and stamina, and their adaptability in difficult conditions. Their thick coat is black or tan in colour, with distinctive markings on their face and chest. They have very long, strong legs making them incredibly fast and they can also easily adapt to different terrains, struggling little in the mountains or in temperature extremes. The American Coonhound has a deep, booming bark, which alerts their owner to the location of either prey or the awareness of approaching danger.  
American Coonhound Behaviour and Temperament
The American Coonhound is a generally very sociable breed of domestic Dog, mainly because they were originally bred to hunt in packs. They are gentle, kind and loyal to their owner, and will obey commands willingly, although their independent nature can make them stubborn at times. The American Coonhound is however, known to have a slightly dominant streak, with behavioural problems occurring if their owner does not assert themselves as the alpha male of the pack. The American Coonhound is an intelligent and good-natured hunter, known to be passionate and happiest when it is working. They are extremely dedicated to the task at hand, and are often eager to please their owner.   
American Coonhound Breeding
The American Coonhound was created by crossing the Bloodhound (from where it gets it's size and smell) with the Black and Tan Foxhound (where it's colouration and agility came from). These domestic breeds are thought to have first appeared in North America with the European colonists in the 1600s, when they were primarily used for hunting and protection. The American Coonhound does however, also make a popular companion and was officially registered by the American Kennel Club in 1945. Today, there tend to be two types of the American Coonhound bred throughout North America, which are the individuals bred as working Dogs, and those that are bred for shows and competitions.   
American Coonhound Interesting Facts and Features 
Although the American Coonhound is indeed loyal and good-natured, their exceptional sense of smell can sometimes distract them from what they are supposed to be doing. They will often stubbornly follow a new scent trail and will independently go in search of it's cause. Despite being a popular household pet today, the American Coonhound was primarily bred for chasing Raccoons up trees. The Dog would then sit below the tree and bark loudly to alert it's owner of the Coon's presence. They were also used to hunt much larger animals including Deer and Elk, Bears and even Mountain Lions. 
		 	      

	      Adelie Penguin Classification and Evolution
The Adelie Penguin is the smallest and most widely distributed species of Penguin in the Southern Ocean and is one of only two species of Penguin found on the Antarctic mainland (the other being the much larger Emperor Penguin). The Adelie Penguin was named in 1840 by French explorer Jules Dumont d'Urville who named the Penguin for his wife, Adelie. Adelie Penguins have adapted well to life in the Antarctic as these migratory Birds winter in the northern pack-ice before returning south to the Antarctic coast for the warmer summer months.
  
Adelie Penguin Anatomy and Appearance
The Adelie Penguin is one of the most easily identifiable Penguin species with a blue-black back and completely white chest and belly. The head and beak of the Adelie Penguin are both black, with a distinctive white ring around each eye. The strong, pink feet of the Adelie Penguin are tough and bumpy with nails that not only aid the Adelie Penguin in climbing the rocky cliffs to reach its nesting grounds, but also help to push them along when they are sliding (rowing) along the ice. Adelie Penguins also use their webbed feet along with their small flippers to propel them along when swimming in the cold waters.
  
Adelie Penguin Distribution and Habitat
The Adelie Penguin is one of the southern-most Birds in the world as it is found along the Antarctic coastline and on the islands close to it. During the winter months, the Adelie Penguins migrate north where they inhabit large platforms of ice and have better access to food. During the warmer summer months, the Adelie Penguins return south where they head for the coastal beaches in search of ice-free ground on the rocky slopes where they can build their nests. More than half a million Adelie Penguins have formed one of the largest animal colonies in the world on Ross Island, an island formed by the activities of four monstrous volcanoes in the Ross Sea.
  
Adelie Penguin Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like all species of Penguin, the Adelie Penguin is a highly sociable animal, gathering in large groups known as colonies, which often number thousands of Penguin individuals. Although Adelie Penguins are not known to be terribly territorial, it is not uncommon for adults to become aggressive over nesting sites, and have even been known to steal rocks from the nests of their neighbours. Adelie Penguins are also known to hunt in groups as it is thought to reduce the risk of being eaten by hungry predators. Adelie Penguins are constantly interacting with one another, with body language and specific eye movements thought to be the most common forms of communication.
  
Adelie Penguin Reproduction and Life Cycles
Adelie Penguins return to their breeding grounds during the Antarctic summer months of November and December. Their soft feet are well designed for walking on land making the trek to it's nesting ground much easier as the Penguin fasts during this time. Adelie Penguin pairs mate for life in large colonies, with females laying two eggs a couple of days apart into a nest built from rocks. Both the male and female take it in turns to incubate their eggs while the other goes off to feed, for up to 10 days at a time. The Adelie Penguin chicks have an egg-tooth which is a bump on the top of their beaks, which helps them to break out of the egg. Once hatched, the parents still take it in turns to look after their young while the other goes off to gather food. After about a month, the chicks congregate in groups called crèches and are able to fend for themselves at sea when they are between 2 and 3 months old.
  
Adelie Penguin Diet and Prey
Adelie Penguins are strong and capable swimmers, obtaining all of their food from the sea. These Penguins primarily feed on krill which are found throughout the Antarctic ocean, as well as Molluscs, Squid and small Fish. The record of fossilised eggshell accumulated in the Adelie Penguin colonies over the last 38,000 years reveals a sudden change from a Fish-based diet to Krill that started two hundred years ago. This is thought to be due to the decline of the Antarctic Fur Seal in the late 1700s and Baleen Whales in the twentieth century. The reduction of competition from these predators has resulted in there being an abundance of Krill, which the Adelie Penguins are now able to exploit as an easier source of food.
  
Adelie Penguin Predators and Threats
Adult Adelie Penguins have no land based predators due to the uncompromising conditions that they inhabit. In the water however, the biggest threat to the Adelie Penguin is the Leopard Seal, which is one of the southern-most species of Seal and a dominant predator in the Southern Ocean. These Penguins have learnt to avoid these predators by swimming in large groups and not walking on thin ice. The Killer Whale is the other main predator of the Adelie Penguin, although they normally hunt larger species of Penguin further north. South Polar Skuas are known to prey on the Adelie Penguin's eggs if left unguarded, along with chicks that have strayed from a group.
  
Adelie Penguin Interesting Facts and Features
Adelie Penguins inhabit one of the coldest environments on Earth and so have a thick layer of fat under their skin helping to keep them warm. Their feathers help to insulate them and provide a waterproof layer for extra protection. The Adelie Penguin is a highly efficient hunter and is able to eat up to 2kg of food per day, with a breeding colony thought to consume around 9,000 tonnes of food over 24 hours. The flippers of the Adelie Penguin make them fantastic at swimming and they can dive to depths of 175 meters in search of food. Adelie Penguins do not have teeth as such but instead have tooth-shaped barbs on their tongue and on the roof of their mouths. These barbs do not exist for chewing but instead assist the Penguin to swallow slippery prey. 
  
Adelie Penguin Relationship with Humans
A visit to the Adelie Penguin colonies has long since been on the programme for tourists to the Antarctic, who marvel at the vast numbers of them nesting on the beaches and hunting in the surrounding waters. This has meant that Adelie Penguins are one of the most well-known of all Penguin species today. Early explorers however, also hunted the Penguins both for their meat and their eggs in order to survive in such uncompromising conditions.
  
Adelie Penguin Conservation Status and Life Today
Despite having been confined to living on coastal Antarctica, Adelie Penguins are one of the most common and widespread Penguins in the southern hemisphere. With more than 2.5 million breeding pairs found throughout southern Antarctica, the Adelie Penguin has adapted well to it's polar habitat. Scientists have also been known to use Adelie Penguin nesting patterns as indicators of climate change, noticing that they are able to nest on beaches that were previously covered in ice. The Adelie Penguin is listed as Least Concern.




		 	      

	      The antelope is a deer-like mammal found in Africa, Asia and parts of the Americas. There are many different species of antelope including the tiny Royal antelope that stands at the height of a rabbit!  

Unlike deer that renew their horns annually, the antelope has strong permanent horns, that antelope mainly use to defend their herd or to fight other antelopes.  

An antelope tends to get to between 8 and 10 years old in the wild although they have been known to live for longer when kept in captivity. Many antelope individuals however, wouldn\'t last into old age in the wild as antelope are a key target for many large carnivorous mammals. If the antelope was old then the antelope would naturally be slower at running from danger.  

The antelope is one of the many medium-sized mammals holding the African food chain together. The antelope may only graze on grasses but it is a stable food source for many of Africa\'s large carnivorous predators, such as lions, hyenas and crocodiles.  

Antelope display different defensive behaviours based on their size, habitat, number and species. The smaller solitary antelope tend to live in dense forested areas and these species of antelope defend themselves by hiding. The duiker antelopes get their name from this specie\'s ability to dive into the vegetation. Gazelle-sized antelope run and leap, and some species of antelope exhibit their unique behaviour of pronking or stotting. Large antelope congregate in larger herds and can depend on running as group defence.  

The antelope is found in a wide range of habitats, typically woodland, forest, savannah, grassland plains, and marshes. Several species of antelope have adapted to living in the mountains and rocky outcrops, a few species of antelope have adapted to deserts (both hot and cold), and a couple of species of antelope are even semi-aquatic and these antelope live in swamps.  

After mating, female antelopes give birth to a single calf or, more rarely, twins, after a gestation period that can last up to eight months.  A mother and her newborn calf are vulnerable to predators, and antelopes have had to evolve different strategies for surviving this period. For most antelope species, the female gives birth in dense cover and leaves the calf while she feeds. The calf comes to its mother when she calls it, and once fed, the calf will hide away again. Once in its hiding place, the calf remains completely still and will run away only if it is on the verge of being discovered.
		 	      

	      African Civet Classification and Evolution
The African Civet is a large species of Civet found across sub-Saharan Africa. The African Civet is the only remaining member in it's genetic group and is considered to be the largest Civet-like animal on the African continent. Despite their cat-like appearance and behaviours, the African Civets are not felines at all but are in fact, more closely related to other small carnivores including Weasels and Mongooses. The African Civet is most well known for the musk that it secretes to mark it's territory (called Civetone), which has been used in the manufacturing of perfumes for centuries, and it's striking black and white markings, make the African Civet one of the easiest Civet species to identify.   
African Civet Anatomy and Appearance
One of the African Civet's most distinctive features are the black and white markings on their fur and grey face, which along with the black band around their eyes, gives these animals a Raccoon-like appearance. The similarity is only heightened by the fact that the African Civet's hind legs are quite a bit longer than the front legs, making it's stance very different to that of a Mongoose. The average adult African Civet has a body length of around 70cm with nearly the same length tail on top of that. The paws of the African Civet each have five digits with non-retractable claws to enable the Civet to move about in the trees more easily.  
African Civet Distribution and Habitat
The African Civet is found in a variety of habitats on the African continent, with it's range extending from coast to coast in sub-Saharan Africa. African Civets are most commonly found in tropical forests and jungles and areas where there is plenty of dense vegetation to provide both cover and animals that the African Civets feeds on. African Civets are never found in arid regions and always must be in an area which has a good water source. Despite this though, it is not uncommon for African Civets to be found along rivers that lead into the more arid regions. They are capable swimmers and often spend their time hunting and resting in the trees as well as on the ground.  
African Civet Behaviour and Lifestyle
The African Civet is a solitary animal that only comes out under the cover of night to hunt and catch food. These nocturnal animals are primarily tree-dwelling creatures that spend most of the daylight hours resting in the safety of the trees high above. African Civets tend to be most active just after sunset but tend to hunt in areas that still provide plenty of cover. Despite being generally very solitary creatures, the African Civet has been known to gather in groups of up to 15 members particularly during the mating season. They are also highly territorial animals, marking their boundaries with the scent released by their perineal glands.  
African Civet Reproduction and Life Cycles
The only time when African Civets seem to be seen together is when they are mating. The female African Civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The female African Civet nests in an underground burrow that has been dug by another animal in order to safely raise her young. Unlike many of their carnivorous relatives, Civet babies are usually born quite mobile and with their fur. The babies are nursed by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves. African Civets can live for up to 20 years, although many rarely get to be this old.  
African Civet Diet and Prey
Despite the fact that the African Civet is a carnivorous mammal, it has a very varied diet that consists of both animal and plant matter. Small animals such as Rodents, Lizards, Snakes and Frogs make up the majority of the African Civet's diet, along with Insects, berries and fallen fruits that it finds on the forest floor. The African Civet predominantly uses it's teeth and mouth to gather food instead of using it's paws. This method of eating means that the African Civet can use it's 40 sharp teeth effectively to break it's catch down, and the strong jaw of the African Civet makes it harder for it's meal to try and escape.   
African Civet Predators and Threats
Despite being a secretive yet a relatively ferocious predator, the African Civet is actually preyed upon by a number of other predators within their natural environment. Large predatory Cats are the most common predators of the African Civet including Lions and Leopards along with reptiles such as large Snakes and Crocodiles. African Civet populations are also under threat from both habitat loss and deforestation, and have been subject to trophy hunters in the past, across the continent. One of the biggest threats to the African Civet is the want for their musk.  
African Civet Interesting Facts and Features
The musk secreted by the glands close to the African Civet's reproductive organs has been collected by Humans for hundreds of years. In it's concentrated form, the smell is said to be quite offensive to people, but much more pleasant once diluted. It was this scent that became one of the ingredients in some of the most expensive perfumes in the world (and made the African Civet a well-known African animal). African Civets are known to carry the rabies disease, which is contracted through contact with an already infected animal. The African Civet is also known to use designated areas around it's territory, where it is able to go to the toilet.  
African Civet Relationship with Humans
Each African Civet secretes up to 4g of musk every week, which is normally collected from African Civets in the wild. However, the capturing and keeping of African Civets for their musk is not unknown and is said to be an incredibly cruel industry. Today, few perfumes still contain actual musk from the glands of an African Civet as many scents today are easily reproduced artificially. Although it is a protected yet not an endangered animal, the African Civet populations have also been severely affected by Human hunters, who hunt these little carnivores to simply add their skin to the trophy cabinet.  
African Civet Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the African Civet is under threat from deforestation and therefore drastic loss of much of it's natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in the area is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations. The African Civet is listed as being Least Concern, which means that there is little threat at the moment that the African Civet  will become extinct in the near future.


		 	      

	      African Palm Civet Classification and Evolution
The African Palm Civet (also commonly known as the Two-Spotted Palm Civet) is a species of Civet natively found in the tropical jungles of eastern and central Africa. Unlike the other Civet species which are all very closely related to one another, the African Palm Civet is in a genetic group of it's own, making it the most distinctive among the Civet species. The African Palm Civet is widespread throughout a number of habitats with an abundance in numbers in certain areas. The African Palm Civet is a great opportunist and is thought to be the most common forest-dwelling small carnivore in all of Africa.  
African Palm Civet Anatomy and Appearance
Despite their Cat-like appearance and behaviours, the African Palm Civet is not a feline at all but are in fact more closely related to other small carnivores including Genets, Weasels and Mongooses. One of the African Palm Civets most distinctive features are their brown to light-tan to yellow coloured thick fur, which is mottled with a series of darker brown spots. The fur is darker on the top half of it's body and allows the civet to be more easily camouflaged amongst the trees. The muzzle of the African Palm Civet is sharply pointed as with other Civet species, and it has strong and muscular yet relatively short limbs. They have small, rounded ears and yellow-green eyes with slit shaped pupils.  
African Palm Civet Distribution and Habitat
The African Palm Civet is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forest across much of eastern African and is even found parts of central and western Africa, where it's native habitats still exist. Today it's range extends from southern Sudan to Guinea, throughout Angola and into eastern Zimbabwe. African Palm Civets have proved to be extremely adaptable animals and are found in a wide variety of habitats from deciduous forests and lowland rainforests, to river and savanna woodlands. The African Palm Civet however is being threatened in much of it's natural range due to deforestation causing destruction to or total loss of many of their historical regions.  
African Palm Civet Behaviour and Lifestyle
The African Palm Civet is a solitary animal that leads a crepuscular lifestyle, meaning that it only emerges for a few hours at dawn and dusk in order to hunt for food. They are primarily tree-dwelling creatures that spend most of the day and night hours resting in the safety and shelter of the trees. Despite being generally very solitary creatures, the African Palm Civet has been known to gather in groups of up to 15 members when food is in abundance. African Palm Civets have two sets of scent glands that secret strong-smelling substances. Found between the third and forth toes on each foot, and on the lower part of their abdomen, these glandular secretions are primarily for marking territories and are involved in mating.  
African Palm Civet Reproduction and Life Cycles
African Palm Civets are able to breed twice a year in May and October during the rainy seasons, when there is more food available. The female African Palm Civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The babies are weaned by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves when they are usually around 60 days old. The female's mammary glands produce a orange-yellow liquid which stains both her tummy and the babies fur the same colour. This is thought to discourage males that are either looking for a mate or who want to harm her young. African Palm Civets can live for up to 15 years, although few rarely get to be this old in the wild.  
African Palm Civet Diet and Prey
The African Palm Civet is an omnivorous animal, and like other species of Civet, it survives on a diet comprised of both plants and other animals. Despite this, pineapples and other fruits make up the majority of it's diet. Small animals such as Rodents, Lizards, Birds and Frogs are also hunted by the African Palm Civet, along with insects. African Palm Civets feed by holding their prey in their hands and bite it powerfully a number of times to kill it, before then swallowing it whole. The long, sturdy tail is thought to be used as a brace when the Civet is balancing only on it's hind legs, and along with the thick-skinned pads on the bottom of it's feet, stabilises the African Palm Civet on the branch while its eating.  
African Palm Civet Predators and Threats
Despite being a secretive yet relatively ferocious predator, the African Palm Civet is actually preyed upon by a number of predators within their natural environment. Although they do spend most of their lives in the trees, African Palm Civets come down to the ground to look for food fairly often, and will even venture outside of the forest if prey is in short supply. Large predatory Cats are the most common predators of the African Palm Civet including Lions, and Leopards that are able to hunt the Civet in the trees. Reptiles such as large Snakes and Crocodiles also hunt the African Palm Civet if given the chance. One of the biggest threats to the African Palm Civet today though is the loss of much of it's natural habitat, mainly due to deforestation.  
African Palm Civet Interesting Facts and Features
The musk secreted by the glands close to the African Palm Civet's reproductive organs has been collected by Humans for hundreds of years. In it's concentrated form, the smell is said to be quite offensive to people, but much more pleasant once diluted. It was this scent that became one of the ingredients in some of the most expensive perfumes in the world. African Palm Civet females are known to produce milk from the exact number of teats as they have young, to ensure that each of their offspring has enough milk to drink and individuals are not so easily excluded during feeding time. Although it is not so common today, African Palm Civets were once commonly hunted as bushmeat in certain parts of the continent.  
African Palm Civet Relationship with Humans
Farmers that live in the native habitats of the African Palm Civet view these animals very much as pests, as they are commonly known to raid poultry coops in order to get an easy meal. They are extremely persistent and abundant carnivores, which added to their secretiveness, has meant that they have caused great damage to livestock numbers in the past. Humans though have been a bigger threat to the African Palm Civet for years as they were hunted and trapped for their meat, scent and thick fur coat which is used to make traditional ceremonial garments. The destruction of the African Palm Civet's natural environment by people is thought to be the biggest threat to the species today.  
African Palm Civet Conservation Status and Life Today
The African Palm Civet has been listed as an animal that is at lower risk and therefore of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the wild in the immediate future. They are known to be widely distributed, found in a variety of habitats and population numbers are also in abundance in certain areas. Today, the African Palm Civet is under threat from deforestation and has been subjected to the drastic loss of much of its natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in these areas is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations.


		 	      

	      Alligator Classification and Evolution
Alligators are in the same family as other large reptiles like Crocodiles but are native to only two countries, which are the southern USA and China (where the Alligator is now nearly extinct). Alligators tend to be smaller than their Crocodile cousins but have been known to move at speeds of up to 15mph on land making them one of the fastest large reptiles in the world. Despite their size, there are a number of distinct differences between Alligators and Crocodiles as an Alligator's snout is shorter than that of a Crocodile, and with their mouths shut, an Alligator's teeth cannot be seen but a Crocodile's can. Alligators are also commonly known as Gators in their native, southern North American habitats.   
Alligator Anatomy and Appearance
Alligators are very large reptiles, with males growing up to 4.5 meters in length. The female Alligator tends to be slightly smaller, with a total body and tail length of between 3 and 3.5 meters. The Chinese Alligator is a much smaller species, almost half the size of a female American Alligator. Alligators have an armour-plated body that varies in colour from yellow, to green, to brown, finally turning almost completely black in old age. The tail of the Alligator is incredibly muscular and is used to propel the animal when it is in the water. Alligators have short, stocky legs with webbing between their toes. This not only helps them when they are swimming but also means that they can negotiate the muddy river banks with ease.  
Alligator Distribution and Habitat
The American Alligators are found in the south-eastern USA, throughout all of Florida and Louisiana, the southern parts of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, coastal South and North Carolina, eastern Texas, the south-eastern corner of Oklahoma and the southern tip of Arkansas. The majority of American Alligators inhabit Florida and Louisiana, with over a million alligators thought to be found between the two states. The American Alligators live in freshwater environments, such as ponds, marshes, wetlands, rivers, lakes, and swamps, as well as brackish environments. Southern Florida is the only place in the world where both Alligators and Crocodiles are known to live in the same place.  
Alligator Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Alligator is a solitary predator that is actually surprisingly clunky when moving about on land. They tend to be quite slow, moving themselves by either crawling or sliding along the slippery banks on their bellies. They are highly territorial animals that are known to make a variety of noises to represent different things, including the declaration of territory, finding a mate and the young warning their mother that they are in danger. Male Alligators however, do not appear to have such a prominent voice box and make very little noise outside of the breeding season, when they are known to growl and bellow to fend off competing males.  
Alligator Reproduction and Life Cycles
Alligators tend to breed during the spring when they come together in large groups to find a suitable partner. The female constructs a nest out of mud, leaves and twigs on the ground where she lays up to 50 eggs. The hatchlings emerge after a 2 month incubation period which is done by the rotting vegetation in the nest. Females do not incubate their eggs as they would break them but still guard their nest from hungry predators. The baby Alligators are between 15 and 20 long when they hatch and are vulnerable to predation from a number of species. They usually remain with their mother for the first 2 years. Alligators tend to live to about 50 years old or so but some have been known to live at least another 20 years when in captivity.   
Alligator Diet and Prey
The Alligator is generally a solitary predator, but smaller and younger Alligator individuals however, are known to stay together in groups especially when hunting. The Alligator eats fish, small mammals and birds, but the Alligator has also been known to attack much larger animals. Adult alligators have been known to hunt Deer and are well known to kill and eat smaller Alligators. In some cases, larger alligators have been known to hunt the Florida Panther and Black Bears, making the alligator the dominant predator throughout the their environment. Attacks on pets and even people are also not unknown.  
Alligator Predators and Threats
The Alligator is an apex predator in it's environment, known to even hunt animals that are much larger in size. Humans are the only predator of adult Alligators as they were hunted almost to extinction for their meat, and for their unique skin which was used in the manufacture of a variety of products. The smaller, baby Alligators however, are prey to a number of species including Raccoons, Birds, Bobcats and even other Alligators. Despite being protected from hunting in much of it's North American range today, Alligators are threatened by loss of their natural habitats and high levels of pollution in the water.  
Alligator Interesting Facts and Features
Alligator DNA is thought to date back to even before Dinosaur times meaning that the Alligators survived whatever it was that the dinosaurs didn't, with the scientific estimates first dating the species 150 million years ago. The Chinese Alligator is currently found only in the Yangtze River Valley and the Chinese Alligator is now extremely endangered with less than 100 Chinese Alligators believed to be left in the wild. There are actually many more Chinese Alligators that live in zoos around the world than can be found in the wild today. Alligators are known to have up to 80 teeth which are perfectly shaped for biting down on prey. They are even able to regrow those teeth that are lost.  
Alligator Relationship with Humans
Unlike large Crocodiles, Alligators do not immediately regard a Human upon encounter as prey, but the Alligator may still attack in self-defence if provoked. Alligator attacks are uncommon but Alligators have definitely been known to attack Humans if the Human is in the Alligator's territory and particularly if the animal feels threatened. They are however known to commonly prey on domestic animals including pets and sometimes livestock when they are close to Human settlements. Hunting towards the end of the last century almost completely obliterated the entire American Alligator population (and has pretty much done so to the Chinese Alligator). Fortunately the gravity of the situation in the USA was realised before it was too late, with the protection of the species having led to an increase in population numbers now.   
Alligator Conservation Status and Life Today
The American Alligator was once an Endangered species but thanks to habitat protection and federal laws protecting them, populations throughout Florida and Louisiana have recovered really well, with over a million Alligators thought to exist in the USA today. They are however now threatened by habitat degradation, mainly in the form of deforestation and pollution in the water. The story of the Chinese Alligator however is very different, with less than 100 individuals thought to be left in the Yangtze River Valley, this species is Critically Endangered in the wild and is sadly on the verge of extinction.

		 	      

	      Akita History and Domestication
The Akita is a medium sized domestic Dog breed, first bred in Japan in the 1600s. The Akita originates from the Akita Prefecture in the north-east of Japan, hence it's name. The exact reason for their initial creation is still disagreed upon, as to whether or not they were first bred as hunting or as fighting Dogs. Despite this, many favour the theory that this large breed was bred to aid local people with the hunting of Deer and Wild Boar and to possibly protect them from large carnivores like Wolves and Bears, with the fighting of them becoming popular, before people began to fortunately lose interest in the sport. Today, they are mainly used to assist their owners when hunting and are also a popular foreign breed in western households.  
Akita Physical Characteristics
Like a number of other Japanese working breeds, the Akita has a plush double-coat of fur, consisting of a medium length top layer and a soft undercoat to keep them warm. This double-coat of fur can vary in colour, and is actually also water-resistant, preventing the Akita from developing hypothermia. The Akita has a strong, muscular body that is longer than it is tall. They have a heavy triangular head, with dark, triangular eyes that are deeply set into the Dog's face. The thick, strong limbs of the Akita allow it to move with vigorous precision particularly when hunting, and it's slightly webbed paws make this Dog an excellent swimmer. The most distinctive features of the Akita are their small, pointed ears and curved, upturned tail which almost sits on the Dog's back.  
Akita Behaviour and Temperament
Due to the fact that the Akita has been historically bred as both a hunting and a fighting Dog, they are naturally aggressive and very dominant animals. Akitas have changed very little since they were first produced, with household individuals still having strong hunting instincts today. They are therefore, not for the inexperienced owner as they require firm and consistent training with lots of positive reinforcement. The Akita is also known to respond badly to harsh treatment. They are incredibly intelligent and loyal Dogs though, and are loving, devoted and gentle towards their master and family. The Akita is also known to be a good guard Dog as it is very suspicious of any person or animal that it doesn't know.  
Akita Breeding
Like many other domestic breeds, today the Akita can be found in a variety of colours and with a milder temperament than it's ancestors. They are however, still bred as working and hunting Dogs in their native Japan, assisting their master in catching food, as well as being an increasingly popular choice of guard Dog in the west.  There are few health problems however, that are associated with this breed including hyperthyroid, hip and knee problems, which are all common ailments of larger Dogs particularly. They generally live for between 9 and 15 years, and females can have anywhere from three to twelve puppies per litter.  
Akita Interesting Facts and Features 
In the 1930s, the Akita was so rare in Japan due to the increasing popularity of non-native breeds, that only the very rich could apparently afford one. They were declared as a "national treasure" in Japan in an attempt to conserve the country's native breeds, and having an Akita in a household is said to symbolise good health, good fortune and prosperity. Due to their long, thick coat, Akitas shed heavily twice a year, for about 2 weeks at a time, meaning that they must be brushed every day to prevent their fur from matting. Possibly due to their natural hunting nature, household Dogs are known to enjoy carrying objects in their mouths. 

		 	      

	      American Cocker Spaniel History and Domestication
The American Cocker Spaniel is a small and cheerful Dog, originally bred as a hunting and gun Dog. The English Cocker Spaniel is the ancestor of the American Cocker Spaniel and is thought to have arrived in North America as early as the 14th century. They were bred for hunting, tracking and as a watchdog, but in the 19th century, the want for a smaller version of the English Cocker Spaniel, gave rise to the American Cocker Spaniel found today. Although the two were originally only different in size, over the years, they began to adopt very different traits leading to their listing as separate breeds in 1945. Today, the American Cocker Spaniel is the smallest breed of gun Dog and is also one of the most popular Dogs in America.   
American Cocker Spaniel Physical Characteristics
The American Cocker Spaniel is a small and compact Dog, known for it's patience and agility when flushing out game (particularly birds). As with other Spaniels, the mouth of the American Cocker Spaniel is soft and gentle, making them perfect for retrieving game-birds without causing them any further damage. One of the most distinctive features of the American Cocker Spaniel is their rounded head, with long, fluffy ears that fall on either side. The American Cocker Spaniel's coat is medium-length, thick and is well-known for it's softness. Their silky fur comes in a variety of colours depending on the bloodline, and requires daily grooming to avoid matting, particularly around the feet.   
American Cocker Spaniel Behaviour and Temperament
The American Cocker Spaniel is a loyal and excitable breed, that has a typically joyful and trusting temperament. They are always eager to please their owner and are known to be both cooperative and fairly intelligent Dogs, listening to, understanding and obeying commands, but they are also known to be stubborn from time to time. Their gentle, obedient and affectionate nature means that they are often good as a family pet, interacting and responding well, to both children and other animals. They are known to be happy and merry for the majority of the time and love to exercise their wild hunting instincts through running, swimming and retrieving toys.  
American Cocker Spaniel Breeding
The American Cocker Spaniel was originally bred from the English Cocker Spaniel to produce the same breed, but a little smaller. This meant that the American Cocker Spaniel was the ideal size for flushing smaller game-birds such as Quails and Woodcock out of their hiding places with ease. Today, one of the American Cocker Spaniel's most notable features is their silky, feathered fur which is particularly prominent on their long, dropped ears and around their feet. Although they are still commonly used as hunting and gun Dogs, they are most commonly kept for show and companionship and are now one of America's most popular domestic breeds.   
American Cocker Spaniel Interesting Facts and Features 
Despite a number of variations within the breed, the American Cocker Spaniel is known to still possess it's original hunting streak and is commonly said to have such a great love of toys, that it will go to great lengths to obtain more, often hiding or destroying an old toy just to get a new one. They are however associated with a number of health problems including the generally life-threatening IMHA (Immune Mediated Hemolytic Anemia). American Cocker Spaniels are also prone to a number of both ear and eye conditions, but these can generally be much more easily treated. 
		 	      

	       An American original, this competent retriever also doubles as a flushing spaniel. Like many of the spaniel breeds, it hunts both feather and fur (and even fish) with equal enthusiasm.  

 Friendly, intelligent, and often willing to please, this dog is also very protective of its owner. In old age the dog may become temperamental. This dog is very soft-mouthed but can be trained to play tug-of-war. It will be very attached to the alpha of the house and think of children as kennel mates until they grow up.   

Unspayed females will have a mind of their own when in heat (even when very well trained). This little brown dog also has many of the common spaniel characteristics. 		 	      

	      African Penguin Classification and Evolution
The African Penguin is a small to medium sized Penguin species that is found along the coast of South Africa and on a number of it's surrounding islands. The African Penguin is thought to be most closely related to the Humboldt and Magellanic Penguins found in southern South America, and the Galapagos Penguin found in the Pacific Ocean near the Equator. The African Penguin was named for the fact that it is the only species of Penguin that is found breeding on the African Coast, and it is believed to be one of the first Penguin species to be discovered by humans.   
African Penguin Anatomy and Appearance
The African Penguin is a fairly distinctive species of penguin with clean black and white markings and a sharply pointed black beak. The African Penguin also has black feet and a number of dot-like markings flecked across it's white chest which are said to be as unique to the individual Penguin as a Human finger print is, along with a narrow black band. The male African Penguin is generally slightly larger than their female counterparts but both are fairly similar in appearance. One of the African Penguin's most distinctive features is that they have pink glands above their eyes which help them to cope with the temperate climates. The hotter the African Penguin gets, the more blood is sent to these glands so it may be cooled by the surrounding air, which in turn, makes these glands more pink.  
African Penguin Distribution and Habitat
The African Penguin is found on the south-western coast of Africa, living in 27 colonies on 24 islands between Namibia and Algoa Bay, near Port Elizabeth, South Africa, with the largest colony found on Dyer Island, near Kleinbaai. African Penguins are most densely distributed around the cold, nutrient rich waters of the Benguela Current where there is a plentiful supply of food. Although they spend much of their time at sea, African Penguins gather in nesting sites on rocky islands where they spend their days in sheltered burrows to avoid the hot sun. They are one of the only Penguin species to be found in non-freezing conditions and cope with this by burrowing, emerging at dusk and dawn, and using the pink glands above their eyes to cool the blood down.  
African Penguin Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like many other Penguin species, African Penguins are incredibly sociable birds, with adults forming pair bonds that last for life (as long as 10 years). African Penguins can often be seen grooming one another, which is not only practical for cleaning purposes, but also for removing parasites and even just rearranging feathers, constantly strengthening the social bond between the pair. Their courtship displays are often very noisy as the male and female Penguin call to each other using a series of donkey-like sounds. African Penguins are also known to submit to a spot of bathing only a few meters from the shore, which they are thought to do quite regularly to both clean and to cool themselves down in the heat.  
African Penguin Reproduction and Life Cycles
African Penguins begin to breed at the average age of four, when a male and female will pair up, and tend to breed together for the rest of their lives. The female African Penguin either digs herself a burrow or finds a dip beneath a rock or bush, in which she lays two eggs. The eggs are incubated by both parents for up to 40 days, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The African Penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents constantly until they are a month old when they begin to be left on their own, forming crèches with other chicks for protection from predators. They tend to remain with their parents until they are between 3 and 5 months old, when they will leave the colony (this is dependant though on the supply and quality of food in the area). The chicks return to the colony after a couple of years to moult into their adult plumage. African Penguins generally live for between 10 and 15 years.  
African Penguin Diet and Prey
The African Penguin is a carnivorous animal that, like all other Penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine organisms. Shoaling fish including Anchovies, Sardines, Horse Mackerel and Round Herrings make up the bulk of the African Penguin's diet, along with the occasional Squid or Crustacean when normal food is in short supply. The streamlined body of the African Penguin allows it to move through the water like a rocket, capable of reaching a top speed of around 20 kph when hunting for food. African Penguins catch their prey by diving into the ocean depths for around 2 minutes at a time. Although they normally go to depths of around 30 meters, it is not uncommon for them to be found hunting more than 100 meters beneath the water's surface.  
African Penguin Predators and Threats
The African Penguin's smaller size means that it has many predators both in the water and also on dry land. Their marine predators are primarily Sharks and Cape Fur Seals, but the biggest threat to them on land is not just to the adult Penguins, but more the vulnerable eggs and chicks. Kelp Gulls and Scared Ibises prey on them from the air and Mongooses, Snakes, and Leopards have been observed hunting them on ground. The African Penguin has also been severely affected by Human activity in their native regions, with populations thought to have taken a drastic decline, mainly due to the exploitation of their eggs for food when they were first discovered. They are also severely affected by the disruption of their natural habitats.   
African Penguin Interesting Facts and Features
Penguins have more feathers than any other bird, which act as a waterproof layer keeping their skin dry. African Penguins moult once a year which they do back in their colonies. The whole process lasts for about 20 days, in which time, the African Penguins cannot swim or eat, and can lose almost half of their body weight. African Penguins are known to spend long periods of time fishing out at sea, and depending on the area, can travel between 30 and 110 km in one trip. However, those African Penguins who have chicks to feed, will rarely go that far, catching food closer to the shore, and as quickly as possible. The African Penguin is also known as the Jackass penguin, due to the donkey-like call that they make during their courtship rituals.  
African Penguin Relationship with Humans
It is widely believed that African Penguins were one of the first Penguin species to come into contact with Humans, due to the fact that they are found on the temperate South African coast rather than in the heart of Antarctica. This however, does not seem to have worked to the bird's advantage as their eggs were stolen for food (slowing the rate of reproduction), and the guano used in nest building was harvested for fertiliser. Today, other threats face the African Penguin including competition for food from commercial fishing and oil pollution in the water. Only a small handful of nesting sites can be accessed by tourists, but the Penguin's nervous nature of people means that these areas have to be strictly monitored.  
African Penguin Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the African Penguin is considered to be a vulnerable animal and has been listed as being Endangered by the IUCN. It is thought that today's African Penguin population of around 70,000 breeding pairs, is less than 10% of the population that existed in 1900. By the 1950s, the African Penguin population had halved, and it had then halved again by 1980. There is an approximate 2% decline in the African Penguin population every year, mainly due to the Human consumption of their eggs, competition for food and habitat disruption.

		 	      

	      The Arctic Fox is a small white fox native to the Arctic regions of the Northern Hemisphere. The Arctic fox is commonly found in the colder parts of Canada, Alaska, Northern Asia and Europe. The Arctic fox is also commonly known as the Snow fox or the White fox due to the fact that the Arctic fox has white fur and spends a great deal of time in the cold snow.
  
The Arctic fox has extremely thick winter fur, which is apparently the warmest fur of all the mammals. The thick fur of the Arctic fox is definitely an essential for the Arctic fox to continue dwelling successfully in the harsh Arctic terrain where temperatures regularly fall below minus 40 degrees Celsius.
  
The Arctic fox tends to prey on lemmings, hares, reptiles, amphibians and occasionally vulnerable seal pups that are not close to their herd. The Arctic fox makes its den far under the surface of the ground, and can amazingly withstand temperatures of up to minus 50 degrees Celsius.  

As with many animals that inhabit the Arctic regions, the fur of the Arctic fox changes colour to adapt to its surroundings accordingly. In the winter, the Arctic fox has thick, white fur which allows the Arctic fox to remain warm and camouflaged in its snowy surroundings. In the summer months, the fur of the Arctic fox changes to a brown colour as there the snow will have melted. This newly coloured brown fur of the Arctic fox, allows the Arctic fox to remain as inconspicuous as possible whilst there is no snow in the Arctic during the summer months.   

As one of the larger carnivores in the Arctic Circle, the Arctic fox has few natural predators within it\'s freezing environment. Polar bears, wolf packs and humans are only real predators of the adult Arctic fox, along with large birds of prey such as snowy owls, that primarily prey on the smaller and more vulnerable Arctic fox cubs.  

The female Arctic fox gives birth to and raises her cubs in the safety of her den, which is a network of tunnels often underground. After a gestation period of a couple of months, the female Arctic fox gives birth to up to 15 cubs which are born at the start of summer and after being nursed by their mother, are fairly independent by the time the Arctic winter starts again.
		 	      

	      Asiatic Black Bear Classification and Evolution
The Asiatic Black Bear is a medium to large sized species of bear that is found inhabiting the deciduous tropical forest throughout Asia. Known to be closely related to the American Black Bear, the two species exhibit a number of similarities including their size, appearance and behaviour and are thought to have actually shared a common ancestor some 4 million years ago. Unlike the American Black Bear however, that is showing increases in population numbers particularly in certain areas, the Asiatic Black Bear is considered to be an endangered species throughout it's native range today as populations have declined drastically due to both loss of their natural habitats to deforestation and the fact they are the most prized of all bear species that are hunted for their body parts (mainly the gall bladder) that are used in traditional medicines and also as a culinary delicacy in some areas.  
Asiatic Black Bear Anatomy and Appearance
Like the other seven bear species found around the world, the Asiatic Black Bear has a strong and sturdy body with a large head and thick-set legs which are strong enough to enable the Asiatic Black Bear to both stand and walk on, using bipedal movement in order to make themselves appear even bigger when they feel threatened or are competing for territory with other individuals. Asiatic Black Bears have a black coat of fur (sometimes brown or even blonde depending on the subspecies) with a distinctive whitish v-shaped marking on their chest and a ruff of longer fur around their necks which again is thought to help to make them appear larger in size than they actually are. As with other bear species, Asiatic Black Bears have a keen sense of smell that is vital in helping them to find food and is reflected in their impressively long snout. However, despite the fact that their ears are larger than those of their relatives, they share the same bad sight and hearing and so rely heavily on their sense of smell to figure out their surroundings.  
Asiatic Black Bear Distribution and Habitat
Asiatic Black Bears would have once been found throughout both Europe and Asia with fossil records having been uncovered from as far west as France and Germany, but have more recently been confined to regions in Central and Southern Asia from Afghanistan to Japan and south to Thailand with a handful of populations also found as far north as Russia. Although they have a relatively wide distribution throughout South-East Asia as well including Myanmar, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia and Thailand they are today absent from Malaysia, possibly due to the overlap of these territories with that of the Sun Bear. Their exact habitats depend on the geographical region where they are found although Asiatic Black Bears prefer deciduous forests and brushland at lower altitudes. Despite this though, the encroachment of human activity on these lowland regions from increasing levels of agriculture and growing human settlements has resulted in the remaining populations of Asiatic Black Bears being pushed into small and isolated pockets of vegetation at higher altitudes.  
Asiatic Black Bear Behaviour and Lifestyle
As with other bear species (and indeed many large carnivores), Asiatic Black Bears are solitary animals that only come together to mate or when competing for more desirable territories. Despite their relatively small claws, Asiatic Black Bears are highly efficient climbers and spend most of their time foraging high in the trees where they inadvertently build nests from the folding of branches caused by them reaching for fruits and hunting small animals. In colder climates in the more northern regions of the natural range, Asiatic Black Bears also hibernate through the winter months and so spend the autumn months consuming foods such as acorns, beechnuts and walnuts that have a high fat content in order to build up a good layer of fat to keep them sustained throughout the winter. Although they tend to hibernate from November right through until April, in parts of Russia particularly where the weather is more hostile than further south, some populations are known to enter their winter dens as early as October and do not emerge until late May.  
Asiatic Black Bear Reproduction and Life Cycles
Asiatic Black Bears are able to breed when they are between 4 and 5 years old and do so during the warmer summer months of June and July. After a gestation period that lasts from between 6 to 8 months, 1 to 4 cubs (although usually 2) are born between March and April in the safety and warmth of the female Asiatic Black Bear's winter den. Depending on the region, these dens can be found in river beds or in rocky outcrops with even those individuals that do not hibernate in the warmer, southern regions, seeking out the shelter of a den in which to give birth to her young cubs. Asiatic Black Bear cubs are born hairless and rely heavily on the warmth of their mother and her winter home to keep them both safe and warm. Asiatic Black Bear cubs are weaned when they are six months old and so begin to only eat solid foods rather than relying on the nutrition from their mother's milk, but often remain with her until they are three years of age. Although Asiatic Black Bears often live to be 30 years old or more in captivity, they rarely exceed the age of 25 in the wild.  
Asiatic Black Bear Diet and Prey
Despite being classed as carnivores, like other bear species Asiatic Black Bears have a widely varied omnivorous diet meaning that they eat both small animals and plants throughout their natural range. Due to the fact that the fruits, plants and seeds that they consume do not contain as much nutrition as larger animals would, Asiatic Black Bears spend vast portions of their waking hours foraging in the trees for food. Acorns, beechnuts, walnuts and other nuts and seeds, along with fruits such as cherries, bamboo shoots and leaves, grasses, herbs, grubs and insects including termites and ants make up the majority of their diet, supplemented by the occasional bird or rodent when other foods are in short supply. Due to the fact that Asiatic Black Bears eat such little meat, their large molar teeth are flat for grinding up vegetation more easily. In areas where human settlements have encroached heavily on the Asiatic Black Bear's natural habitats, they are sometimes known to raid agricultural plantations along with taking occasional livestock from farms.  
Asiatic Black Bear Predators and Threats
The large size and ferocious nature of the Asiatic Black Bear has ensured that they have very few (if any) natural predators throughout their historically vast natural range. Tigers are the main predators of Asiatic Black Bears throughout Asia with the small cubs being particularly vulnerable to predation despite the fierce-some protection provided by the mother. Asiatic Black Bears are also more vulnerable in areas where their natural range overlaps those of other bears including Brown Bears in Russia and they are also threatened by packs of Wolves in some parts of their natural range. People however, have been and still remain, the biggest threat to the world's Asiatic Black Bear population as they are severely affected by the loss of their natural habitats to deforestation to either clear land for agriculture or increase the size of growing human settlements. They are also severely threatened by the hunting of them for their body parts that are highly prized in traditional medicines and despite the ban of their hunting in all countries with the exception of Japan, the trade still continues throughout their natural range today.   
Asiatic Black Bear Interesting Facts and Features
The Asiatic Black Bear is known by a number of other names in Asia including both the Asian Black Bear, the Himalayan Black Bear and the Tibetan Black Bear which is where their scientific name originates from. The whitish v-shaped marking on their chest has also led to them being known as the "Moon Bear" in many regions and led to them being thought to have been most closely related to Sloth Bears and Sun Bears until very recently. Unlike the majority of other bear species. Asiatic Black Bears are largely nocturnal animals that spend most of the day time hours sleeping in nests or hollow trees or caves during the day, only coming out under the cover of night to forage for food. Asiatic Black Bears are known to feed on a wide variety of small animals and plant matter throughout their natural range with their exact diet being heavily dependant on their location on the time of year. A recent study conducted in Thailand however has revealed that Asiatic Black Bears there are known to feed on 160 species of tree-borne fruits alone.  
Asiatic Black Bear Relationship with Humans
For 3,000 years people have hunted Asiatic Black Bears mainly for their paws and gall bladders as dried bile is used in traditional Chinese medicines and believed to contain numerous healing properties. This has led to them being captured and kept in bile farms particularity in China and Vietnam where their living conditions are often a great cause for concern for environmental activists and conservationists. This industry alone has contributed heavily to the severe decline in population numbers and coupled more recently with habitat loss could see Asiatic Black Bears disappearing completely from certain areas. Although cases are rare, they have been known to cause human fatalities in areas where settlements encroach heavily on their dwindling natural habitats and so many are often hunted as pests or threats, despite the killing of them being illegal. Asiatic Black Bears are often captured and kept as pets and captured in Pakistan to fight dogs, in a process known as bear baiting. Not only is this sport morally horrendously wrong but the teeth and claws of the Asiatic Black Bears are also removed before the fighting begins so they have no chance to defend themselves against the onslaught of the Bull Terriers.  
Asiatic Black Bear Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, Asiatic Black Bears are listed by the IUCN's Red List as a species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and could become extinct in the near future if the situation continues without change. It is thought that populations could have declined by as much as 49% over the past 30 years alone and although no official estimates have been produced, it is widely believed that there are fewer than 50,000 left in the wild today. Despite the ban of their hunting throughout their natural range with the exception of Japan where numbers are thought to actually be increasing, Asiatic Black Bears remain heavily threatened by both hunting and habitat loss, along with the capture of them as pets, for sport or to spend the rest of their days in the misery of a bile farm.
		 	      

	      Akbash History and Domestication
The Akbash is a large, white breed of domestic Dog, native to the plains and mountains of western Turkey. The Akbash is a guard Dog and was originally bred by shepherds around 3,000 years ago to create a white-coloured Dog that could guard their flock of Sheep. Although the exact reasons for this particular choice in colour are unknown, it is widely believed that a white guard Dog was wanted, to ensure that it wasn't mistaken for a hungry predator, such as a Wolf. The Akbash is an ancient breed of domestic Dog and although it is thought to have derived from similar breeds in Italy and Hungary, it's exact ancestry is not really known. These other continental guard Dogs however, were thought to have been brought into Europe from parts of Asia.  
Akbash Physical Characteristics
The Akbash is a large and powerful breed of Dog, that is perfectly built for a life of Sheep guarding in the mountains. It has a short to medium length coat, which is white in colour with occasional patches of light brown. The coat of the Akbash is coarse to prevent it from matting when exposed to the alpine elements, and the double-layer allows it to also be water-resistant, protecting the Akbash from getting too cold. The Akbash has a big head and powerful jaws, along with a very strong body, a short neck and large, curved toes. The tail of the Akbash is very distinctive to the breed as it is not only long and curved, but is also covered in longer, feathered fur. The Akbash has thickly padded feet and almond-shaped eyes that vary from gold to dark brown in colour.   
Akbash Behaviour and Temperament
The Akbash was originally bred by shepherds to guard their flocks from large mountain predators, so they are naturally a dominant and aggressive breed. They are one of the most primitive guard Dogs among domestic breeds today and therefore require a firm and experienced owner. They are however, intelligent and courageous animals that risk their lives to protect the animals and people under their guard. The Akbash is a very loyal breed, completely devoted and dedicated to their owner and often regard strangers that are not in their owner's presence, as suspicious. The Akbash is very independent with strong and protective instincts, known to respond quickly and without help in the case of emergency, when it feels that it's flock is under threat.   
Akbash Breeding
The Akbash breed first appeared roughly 3,000 years ago, when it was bred to be a strong and protective guard Dog that was white in colour. Although the breed itself has changed very little since the early days, individuals found in households today are less dominant and aggressive than these original guard dogs. They are however still bred to guard livestock, particularly on the ranches in southern America where they are used to protect animals from large carnivores like Coyotes and even Bears. Since their introduction the USA in the 1970s, the breed has become a popular guard Dog and although affected by hip problems like other larger breeds, they are not thought to be so badly affected. The Akbash tends to give birth to between 7 and 9 puppies per litter, which are fully mobile within their first 6 weeks,  
Akbash Interesting Facts and Features
The Akbash is known to be a calm and clean breed of domestic Dog, and happily lives both inside and outside the house. Their fur also has little odour compared to that of other breeds. They are also known to have strong maternal instincts, and have been observed aiding Sheep in cleaning their newborn calves. In it's native country of Turkey, the Akbash was named after the Turkish word akbas, which means "white-headed".  The Akbash breed first became popular as a household pet when 40 Dogs were imported into the USA from Turkey in the 1970s. These Akbash individuals are thought to be the ancestors of the entire population there today.

		 	      

	      There are numerous species of bird found in a wide variety of habitats all around the world. Birds are one of the most thriving groups of animals on the planet as they generally have their habitat (the skies) to themselves.  

Birds can be easily distinguished from other animals due to their sharp, pointed beaks, thin legs, wings and feathers covering their bodies. Although all bird species have wings, some are actually flightless animals that only use their wings for balance and not for flying. Where other birds, such as penguins, use their wings for swimming.  

Birds are often omnivorous animals, generally eating nearly anything that they can find. Most species of bird survive on a diet primarily consisting on insects and plants such as fruits, nuts, berries and seeds.  

Birds are also distinctive in the fact that they lay eggs in a similar way to other animal groups such as fish and reptiles. Birds often make nests in the trees or on the ground in which to lay their eggs.  
		 	      

	       The Basenji is alert, affectionate, energetic, and curious. It loves to play and makes a good pet, as long as it is handled regularly from an early age and the owners are very patient. It is very intelligent. It can be reserved with strangers.   

The Basenji is somewhat aloof, but can also form strong bonds with people. It should not be trusted with noncanine pets. It is usually patient, but does best with older considerate children. The Basenji dislikes wet weather. The breed likes to climb and can easily get over chain wire fences. (NOTE: NOT all Basenjis climb--it depends on the individual.)  

 Basenjis are very clever at getting their own way. The Basenji has the unique properties of not barking (it makes a low, liquid ululation instead) and cleaning itself like a cat. It can be described as speedy, frisky, tireless at play, and teasing the owner into play. Most Basenji problems usually involve a mismatch between owner and pet. The owners mistake the adjective quiet to mean inactive instead of noiseless, thus, they become harassed by an active, though relatively silent, dog.		 	      

	      Asian Giant Hornet Classification and Evolution
The Asian Giant Hornet is the largest species of Hornet in the world with some queens reaching more than 5cm in length. They are found throughout Eastern Asia, particularly in Japan where they are commonly known as the Giant Sparrow Bee. It is not to be confused with the more placid Asian Hornet which arrived in France in 2005 and, although similar in appearance to the Asian Giant Hornet, the Asian Hornet is thought to be no more dangerous than the European Hornet. The Asian Giant Hornet was first classified in 1852 by a British entomologist called Frederick Smith, who worked in the zoology department of the British Museum. He later became the president of the Entomological Society of London from 1862 - 1863.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Anatomy and Appearance
This Wasp species is larger than any other with average Asian Giant Hornets growing to between 2.7cm and 4.5cm in length, with a wingspan of around 7cm. The queens can grow to 5.5cm but are similar in appearance to the worker Hornets with an orange head, black mandibles and a black and golden body. The Asian Giant Hornet has two sets of eyes, one compound and one ocelli, both of which are brown in colour along with their legs. Unlike other species of Wasp, and indeed Bees, the stinger of the Asian Giant Hornet is not barbed and therefore remains attached to it's body once used. This means that Asian Giant Hornets are able to sting their victims repeatedly, injecting a complex venom that is known to contain eight different chemicals.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Distribution and Habitat
The Asian Giant Hornet is found throughout Eastern Asia in Korea, Taiwan, China, Indochina, Nepal, India and Sri Lanka, but they are most commonly found in the mountains of Japan. They are found inhabiting higher altitude forests in both temperate and tropical areas, where there is plenty of food and suitable places to build a nest. The nest is founded by a fertilised female (known as the queen) who selects a suitably sheltered site such as the hollow trunk of a tree, where she begins to build herself a nest out of chewed up bark. Wasp nests contain a series of single cells which together create the well-known honeycomb affect. 
  
Asian Giant Hornet Behaviour and Lifestyle
Asian Giant Hornets are known for their fearless and extremely aggressive attitudes, and they seem to favour one animal in particular, the Honeybee. Asian Giant Hornets like to feed the Honeybee Larvae to their own young and are known to completely destroy whole Bee hives in the process. Rather than using their stinger, Asian Giant Hornets, kill the guarding Bees using their strong mandibles with extreme force and agility. One Hornet is said to be able to tear up to 40 Honeybees in half every minute just to get at what it wants. Asian Giant Hornets are sociable Insects, working together within the colony to forage for food, growing the size of the nest and caring for the young. They are known as workers but they do not reproduce, as that is the job of the queen.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Reproduction and Life Cycles
Once having built her nest in the spring, the fertilised queen lays a single egg in each cell which hatch within a week. Asian Giant Hornet Larvae undergo a five-stage changing process known as metamorphosis, in order to get to their adult form. This takes around 14 days by which point the hive has it's first generation of workers that ensure that the colony as a whole is well-maintained.  By the late summer, the population of the colony is at it's peak with around 700 workers, most of which are female. The queen then begins to produce fertilised (female) and non-fertilised (male) eggs. The males leave the hive once they have reached their adult form and usually die once mated. The workers and current queens tend to die out in the autumn leaving the young fertilised queens to survive the winter and begin the process again the next spring.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Diet and Prey
The Asian Giant Hornet is a dominant predator within it's environment, mainly hunting other insects, particularly Bees. Asian Giant Hornets are also commonly known to kill larger Insects such as Preying Mantises and even other Wasps and Hornets. Adult Asian Giant Hornets are unable to digest solid proteins and instead only eat the fluids from their victims. They are also known to feed their catch to their larvae (particularly the Honeybee Larvae) in the form of a regurgitated paste. The Larvae then secrete a clear liquid which the adults consume, and is thought to give them a bit of an energy boost. Asian Giant Hornets predominantly use their mandibles rather than their powerful stingers in order to secure their prey.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Asian Giant Hornet is an apex predator within it's environment, it has no real natural predators within it's native habitats. Humans pose the biggest threat to the world's largest wasp, mainly as they are consumed as part of normal diets in the areas where they are found. This is particularly common in the mountains of Japan where the Asian Giant Hornet populations are in the highest abundance. Despite it's size and bad temper, numbers of the Asian Giant Hornet are declining in certain areas. This is mainly due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation. Honeybees in Eastern Asia are also starting to develop their own defence again the Hornets, trapping them in their nest until it becomes too hot for this giant Wasp and it dies.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Interesting Facts and Features
The stinger of the Asian Giant Hornet is 1/4 inch long and because it has no barb, the Asian Giant Hornet is able to sting it's victims multiple times. The venom injected by the stinger is incredibly potent and contains eight different chemicals, each with a specific purpose. These range from tissue degeneration and breathing difficulties, to making the sting more painful and even attracting other hornets to the victim. The Asian Giant Hornet is a relentless hunter and only a few are said to be able to completely wipe out a 30,000+ Honeybee colony in a couple of hours. The saliva produced by the larvae of the Asian Giant Hornet is said to give them their renowned energy and stamina when consumed on a regular basis. When chasing their prey, they have been reported travelling distances of up to 60 miles, at a top speed of 25 mph.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Relationship with Humans
Oddly enough, these incredibly large and indeed dangerous Insects, are actually eaten by people who share the habitat of the Asian Giant Hornet. The Asian Giant Hornet is consumed by some as a regular source of food and is most commonly deep fried or served as a Hornet sashimi. Despite the fact that the venom of the Asian Giant Hornet is incredibly potent, it is only in rare cases when the person is more vulnerable, that it is actually the poison that has caused them to die. In Japan alone, 40 people are killed every year by stings from Asian Giant Hornets but fatalities are mainly caused by allergic reactions, often from multiple stings.
  
Asian Giant Hornet Conservation Status and Life Today
The Asian Giant Hornet is today listed as a species that is Threatened from extinction in the near future, should the circumstances surrounding it's survival not change. Despite their dominance in their natural environments, the Asian Giant Hornet populations are being severely affected by habitat loss is certain areas, predominantly in the form of deforestation. 



		 	      

	      American Bulldog History and Domestication
Although the exact origins of the American Bulldog are still not quite clear, they are most commonly thought to have derived from English Bulldogs that arrived in North America with European colonists. Despite there being a great variety within the breed today, the American Bulldog is thought to be the most typical example of the original English Bulldogs of the 17th and 18 centuries. Bred and kept primarily for hunting and as a guard Dog, the American Bulldog was also used in Bull baiting - a cruel and bloody sport where the American Bulldog would publicly fight and being down a Bull. The American Bulldog is most commonly found across the ranches of the southern states of the USA, where it has been also known as the Southern White, the Country Bulldog and the White Bulldog.  
American Bulldog Physical Characteristics
The American Bulldog is a large and powerful breed of Dog belonging to the Mastiff family. They share many of their characteristics with other Mastiff breeds including their small, half-pricked, pendant shaped ears and their square, broad head. The American Bulldog is bigger, faster and more agile than the English Bulldog, and has such powerful hind legs that they are able to jump up to 6ft high. The American Bulldog has short, coarse fur that can be found in a variety of colours, but most notably white and brindle. They are an incredibly muscular and powerful breed having been bred as hunters, guarders and to fight (and win) against Bulls.  
American Bulldog Behaviour and Temperament
The American Bulldog is a courageous and fearless breed, known to be incredibly aggressive at times when it feels under threat. They are however friendly and even sociable Dogs, having been known to be kept in a pack that primarily hunts large carnivores, such as Bears. They are also known to be loyal and devoted towards their owner, providing that they assert themselves as the leader of the pack (dominance issues may occur otherwise). Although the American Bulldog is not listed under the UK's Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, it is not uncommon for them to be confused with more aggressive breeds such as Pit Bulls. These Dogs are not related but are indeed banned, so any potential owner of the American Bulldog is encouraged to acquire the adequate paperwork to prove that their Dog is not a dangerous breed.  
American Bulldog Breeding
The colour of the America Bulldog's fur, along with very subtle differences in general appearance and temperament, is said to differ between different areas. In regions where the American Bulldog is most popular, the Dogs are said to be able to differ between these places, which suggests that the American Bulldog is most commonly bred with individuals that live close by. After their near extinction in the 1940s, the American Bulldogs found throughout America today, are nearly all thought to have derived from Dogs bred by just two breeders during the mid 1900s. Females give birth to between 6 and 11 puppies per litter and can often live to be more than 15 years old.  
American Bulldog Interesting Facts and Features
Despite being a widely distributed and popular breed today, the American Bulldog was on the verge of becoming extinct towards the mid 1900s. On returning from service in the Second World War, John D. Johnson decided to follow in his father's footsteps and resumed the breeding of the American Bulldog in the United States, and ultimately saved this breed from disappearing forever. The American Bulldog was first recognised as an official breed in 1970, when it was registered as the American Pit Bulldog. However, the name of this domestic breed was soon changed to the American Bulldog to avoid confusion with the American Pit Bull Terrier (to which this breed can look quite similar and the two can often be confused). 
		 	      

	       Bavarian Mountain Hounds are calm, quiet, poised and very attached to their masters and family. When hunting, they are hard, single-minded and persistent. Courageous, spirited, fast and agile, they are at ease on a rugged terrain, with a superb nose and powerful hunting instinct. They need a patient, experienced trainer.  

The coat if the Bavarian Mountain Hound is short, thick and shiny, lying very flat against the body and moderately harsh. It is finer on the head and ears, harsher and longer on the abdomen, legs and tail.  

The Bavarian Mountain Hound The Bavarian Mountain is not suited for city life. It is in regular need of space and exercise and also requires regular brushing. They are not dogs for the casual hunter. Most are owned and used by foresters and game wardens.  

		 	      

	       Bluetick Coonhounds are a friendly breed, but new owners should be warned they can be particularly challenging to train. They are, like their hound counterparts, very intelligent breeds, with an uncanny knack for problem-solving.  

 This can be particularly problematic if they are confined to a household or too small a yard, and one should give this breed plenty of space. Once trained, the breed is very mindful of its owner. Breed will drool occasionally and salivate heavily when exposed to human foods.  

They are very loud, constant, and howling barkers. They are bred to be working hunting dogs and can be a challenge to pet owners.

In normal conditions the dog is excellent around families and children. Once trained, they are mindful, friendly dogs. However, their noses will keep them in trouble, so food and garbage should not ever be left out unattended. Often mistaken for aggressiveness, the breed will "greet" strangers with its signature howl and will literally "sniff" the subject until satisfied. Usually this is just the way the breed gets to know its subjects. Since the Blue Ticks are driven by their strong sense of smell, they make excellent hunting/tracking dogs.		 	      

	      The banded palm civet is a rare species of civet found in the tropical forests across south-east Asia. Banded palm civets were named for their tan and black striped coats which give the banded palm civet more camouflage in the surrounding jungle.  

The banded palm civet is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and rainforests throughout much of south-east Asia including Burma and Thailand, and throughout most of Malaysia and Indonesia. Unfortunately, banded palm civets have been drastically affected by increasing deforestation (and therefore habitat loss) in their native regions.  

The banded palm civet is widely spread and fairly commonly found throughout much of south-east Asia and despite their cat-like appearance and behaviours, banded palm civets are not felines at all but are in fact more closely related to other small carnivores including weasels and mongooses. The fur of the banded palm civet is one of the most distinctively marked of all civet species.  

The banded palm civet is solitary animal that only comes out under the cover of night to hunt and catch food. These nocturnal animals are primarily ground-dwelling and highly territorial. Despite being predominately ground-dwelling though the banded palm civet is known to climb up into the trees either in search of food or to hide from approaching predators.  

The banded palm civet is a carnivorous animal, and like other species of civet, it survives on a meat-based diet, supplemented by the odd plant or fruit. Small animals such as rodents, lizards, snakes and frogs make up the majority of the banded palm civet's diet, along with insects and other small creatures scuttling through the under-growth. Banded palm civets are also known to eat the fruits and flowers of palms, mangos and coffee in their natural habitats.  

Despite being a secretive yet relatively ferocious predatory animal, the banded palm civet is actually preyed upon by a number of predators within their natural environment. Large predatory cats are the most common predators of the banded palm civet including tigers and leopards along with reptiles such as large snakes and crocodiles.  

The female banded palm civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The babies are weaned by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves. Banded palm civets can live for up to 20 years, although most rarely get to be this old.  

Today, the banded palm civet is under threat from deforestation and therefore drastic loss of much of its natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in the area is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations.
		 	      

	        
  
  
  
  
 	      

	      The Bengal tiger (also known as the Royal Bengal tiger) is a subspecies of tiger, found across the Indian subcontinent. The Bengal tiger is the national animal of Bangladesh and is considered to be the second largest tiger in the world.  

The Bengal tiger is the most numerous species of tiger in Asia and is found in dense forests and mangrove swamps and jungles throughout India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal, although the Bengal tiger's range today is much smaller than it once was.  

The Bengal tiger is considered to be the second largest species of tiger, although recent reports suggest that the Bengal tiger is on average, larger than the Siberian tiger. The Bengal tiger has a yellow or light orange coat, with black or dark brown stripes and a white belly.  

The white tiger is a Bengal tiger that has mutated genes, meaning that it is white in colour with black stripes. Black tigers are known to have black fur with lighter coloured stripes but are even rarer than the white tiger.  

The Bengal tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting its prey by stalking it until the Bengal tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. Bengal tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the Bengal tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the Bengal tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Bengal tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Bengal tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Bengal tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Bengal tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Bengal tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the Bengal tiger is considered to be an endangered species. Despite being the most common of all the tiger species, there are thought to be around 2,000 Bengal tigers left in the wild.		 	      

	      The Blue Lacy dog is a breed of working dog that originated in Texas in the mid 1800s,and they are the only dog breed to have originated in that state.   

Lacys are intelligent, intense, active and always alert. Developed to be both hunting and herding dogs, they display an incredible drive and determination to work.  

 Bold and tough with tremendous heart, they have enough grit to stop big game and control difficult livestock. Lacys are also devoted to their family, are naturally protective and may be wary of strangers.  

 Young dogs may have too much energy and drive for small children. Being extremely smart, they are easy to train, learning new skills quickly.  

The Blue Lacy is a working breed and most need a job. Work they excel at includes herding livestock, running trap lines and hunting wild hogs. Modern activities like agility that stress intelligence, passion, speed and nimbleness may be appropriate substitutes for traditional work.		 	      

	      Blue Whale Classification and Evolution
The Blue Whale is an enormous species of whale that is found in subtropical and polar waters worldwide. With some individuals growing to more than 100ft long, the Blue Whale is not only the largest animal species in the world but it is also thought that it could be the biggest creature that has ever existed. There are three recognised sub-species of the Blue Whale which are the Northern Blue Whale, the Southern Blue Whale and the Pygmy Blue Whale that despite it's name, still reaches an average length of 24 meters. Although their enormous size and slow-maturing nature has meant that the world's Blue Whale population has never been greatly numerous, they have drastically declined in numbers due to having been hunted by Humans particularly over the past 100 years. Blue Whales are now legally protected and despite one not having been deliberately caught since the 1970s, their numbers are continuing to fall in much of their natural range.  
Blue Whale Anatomy and Appearance
The Blue Whale has an enormously long body that is slim and narrow, which means that they are able to cut through the water with ease. Their hairless skin is smooth and greyish blue in colour with a lighter underside and a series of pleats on their throats which allows it to expand to more than four times it's normal size when the Blue Whale is feeding. The large tail of the Blue Whale is straight and splits into two rubbery flukes at the end and helps to propel their massive bodies through the water. Blue Whales belong to the "Baleen Whales" group which means that instead of having teeth, there are up to 395 hard and bristle-like baleen plates that hang from the upper jaw and are used to filter food out of the water. Like their relatives, Blue Whales also have two blow-holes on the top of their large heads which are used to expel stale air and sea water from their lungs when the Blue Whale surfaces to breathe.   
Blue Whale Distribution and Habitat
Blue Whales are found in both polar and tropical waters worldwide, migrating between the two at different times of year. In the summer months, Blue Whales are found in the cold waters of the Arctic and the Antarctic (depending on the sub-species) where they feed on the abundant amount food, before moving towards warmer, less-rich waters for the winter when they breed. Although the three Blue Whale sub-species do differ slightly in size and colouration, the main difference between them is where they live with Northern Blue Whales and Southern Blue Whales never meeting one another. Northern Blue Whales tend to inhabit the rich, vast waters of the North Atlantic and North Pacific Oceans, where Southern Blue Whales are found on the other side of the Equator in the southern hemisphere. Although Pygmy Blue Whales are also found in the south, they tend to prefer the southern Indian Ocean along with the South Pacific.   
Blue Whale Behaviour and Lifestyle
With the exception of females with their young, Blue Whales are solitary animals that are known to occasionally gather in loose groups to feed. These enormous animals use a variety of sounds (known as songs) including hums, squeaks and rumbles to communicate between one another, particularly during the breeding season in winter. In order to ensure that their voices are heard, the noises Blue Whales make are incredibly loud and having been recorded at volumes greater than 180 decibels, they are known produce the loudest sound of any creature on the planet. The Blue Whale has very small fins and flippers so relies on it's enormous tail to help it to plough through the ocean. Blue Whales also uses their tails to make deep dives as by bringing it above the surface of the water, they are able to get enough power to travel up to 200 meters steeply down into the sea.   
Blue Whale Reproduction and Life Cycles
Blue Whales breed in the warmer, tropical waters during the winter or early spring when after a gestation period that lasts for nearly a year, the female Blue Whale gives birth to a single calf on her return to the region the following year. After spending all summer feeding in the cold, rich waters at the poles, female Blue Whales eat almost nothing whilst they are nursing their young. Newborn Blue Whales already measure seven meters in length and weigh around 2.5 tonnes and remain by their mother's side for at least their first year. Before they are weaned by the time they are eight months old, Blue Whale calves are known to consume up to 90kg of milk every day. Blue Whales are able to start reproducing themselves when they are between 10 and 15 years old with females giving birth every two or three years. Blue Whales can live for up to 40 years.  
Blue Whale Diet and Prey
The Blue Whale is a carnivorous animal that despite the fact that it doesn't have proper teeth, survives on a diet that is mainly comprised of krill and small crustaceans, along with the occasional small fish. Blue Whales feed by swimming up towards a shoal of prey and thanks to the pleats on their neck which allows their throat to expand, take an enormous gulp of water into the sac created in their lower jaw and shut their mouths. The water is then expelled but thousands of tiny creatures are retained by their fine baleen plates which are then swallowed. Blue Whales are able to consume up to six tonnes of prey every day during the summer months which they spend in the cold, rich waters around the poles. Although Blue Whales are known to eat a tremendous amount during the summer, when they migrate to the warmer waters for winter to breed they will barely eat anything at all.  
Blue Whale Predators and Threats
Due to the immense size of an adult Blue Whale, they have no natural predators in the ocean with people being their biggest threat. Young Blue Whale calves however, are more vulnerable particularly once they have left the safer, warmer waters of their nursery and begin to travel throughout the more dangerous seas. Blue Whale calves are preyed upon by pods of Killer Whales that are able to use their intelligence and team work to catch and kill such a large animal. However, when Blue Whale hunting began in the 1800s with the invention of a more technical harpoon the biggest trouble for Blue Whales began. With increasingly better technologies, the situation escalated in the 1900s and decimated the global Blue Whale population, with people hunting them for their meat and blubber until an international ban finally gave them some protection in the 1960s.  
Blue Whale Interesting Facts and Features
The Blue Whale is the largest animal on the planet meaning that numerous organs are much, much bigger than those found in any other animal. Apparently just one breath from a fully grown adult Blue Whale, will produce enough air to fill nearly 2,000 balloons! Also, the heart of the Blue Whale is so big that it is around the same size as a small car, with their main arteries being big enough for a human to swim through comfortably! Being mammals, Blue Whales must come to the surface to breathe in air but also have to expel it and do so by blowing all of the warm, humid air, mucus and sea-water out of their lungs through their two blow-holes and into the air. Blue Whales do this with such force that this column can shoot as high as nine meters into the sky.  
Blue Whale Relationship with Humans
Historically, people would not have been able to hunt Blue Whales as they simply had no means to do it, eating the meat and using the fatty blubber to produce oil from those individuals that either became beached or were washed ashore. With better boats and tools for hunting, the catching of Blue Whales began in the North Atlantic in 1868 and had spread around the world but the turn of the century. In 1966, Blue Whales were protected from hunting after population numbers fell drastically around the world and there has not been a Blue Whale deliberately caught since 1978 off the coast of Spain. Today, people greatly admire these gentle giants with whale-watching trips being popular around the world.  
Blue Whale Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Blue Whale is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Endangered in it's oceanic environment with less than 20,000 individuals thought be left around the world. A hundred years ago it is estimated that the Blue Whale population was significantly higher at roughly 200,000 but numbers were obliterated due to hunting. Blue Whale populations today are thought to face no major threats with the effects of global warming melting the ice-sheets at the poles thought to be of the biggest concern. Although they are no longer hunted (and populations in some areas are thought to actually be increasing), Blue Whales are threatened by accidents with ships.
		 	      

	      The Bedlington Terrier is a breed of terrier named after the mining town of Bedlington, Northumberland in North East England.  

These do-all dogs were able to do almost anything asked of them, if in classic terrier manner. In contrast to its placid appearance, the Bedlington Terrier would come across few problems if felt threatened.  

 In addition, it was fast enough to bay a badger or a fox and was a first-rate water dog. Incredibly smart and attentive to its owner, the Bedlington is one of the most reliable of the terriers.  

They are problem solvers and loyal family companions and known to be highly active and intelligent dogs. The Bedlington terrier is a bold, affectionate and playful breed of domestic dog.		 	      

	      The avocet is a type of wading bird that is found across mudflats in the world's warmer climates. There are four different species of avocet which are the Pied avocet, the American avocet, the Red-necked avocet and the Andean avocet.  

The avocet is generally found in watery habitats close to the coast including marshland, wetlands and swamp. The exact habitat of the avocet is dependent on the species as the Pied avocet is found in Europe and Asia, the American avocet is found on the Pacific coast of North America, the Red-necked avocet in Australia and the Andean avocet is natively found nesting high up in the Andes Mountains.  

The avocet is a very distinctive looking bird due to the fact that the avocet has a long and thin, upturned beak which it sweeps from side to side in the water to catch food. Like other waders the avocet also has long legs and webbed feet to aid it in hunting in the shallows.  

The avocet is a relatively large and forceful species of bird, often reported to intimidate other birds into leaving its spot. Avocets are relatively sociable birds and can often be seen flying, hunting, migrating and nesting in large flocks.  

The avocet is a carnivorous animal and primarily feeds on insects and other small invertebrates in order to survive. Avocets also feed on small fish, crustaceans and even the odd amphibian when they are hunting in the water.  

Due to their relatively large size, the avocet has a limited number of predators in it's natural environment with dogs, cats, stoats and weasels being the primary predators of the avocet chicks and eggs.  

Avocets are known to breed on open ground, generally close to the water. The female avocet lays around 4 eggs which are incubated by both parents until they hatch a month later. Avocet chicks are nursed by both parents until they fledge (fly away from the nest) at between 4 and 6 weeks old.  

Today, the avocet appears to be thriving particularly in the UK, where extensive conservation work has been done in order to try and build the avocet population after it became extinct in Britain in the 1800s. Today, the avocet is also on the logo for the RSPB (Royal Society for the Protection of Birds).
		 	      

	      Asian Elephants are much smaller than the African elephants only growing to a couple of meters tall. Asian elephants are found in the tropical jungles of India and China, and throughout most countries in south-east Asia.
  
Asian elephants have been domesticated for hundreds of years for foresting and often battle. There are many places across Asia where Asian elephants are kept for tourists to ride, and are often treated fairly badly. Asian elephants are well known for their immense strength and friendliness towards humans.
  
Today, the Asian elephant is considered an endangered species with only around 50,000 left in the wild. This is due to the loss of habitat of the Asian elephant and illegal poachers hunting the Asian elephant, for their skins and ivory.  

The Asian elephant has smaller ears than the African elephant and the Asian elephant also has a more curved spine than the African elephant. Unlike the African elephants, the female Asian elephant very rarely have tusks, and if the female Asian elephant does have tusks, they are generally barely visible and can only be seen when the female Asian elephant opens her mouth.  

The Asian elephant follows strict migration routes that are determined by the monsoon season. The eldest elephant of the Asian elephant herd is responsible for remembering the migration route of its Asian elephant herd. This Asian elephant migration generally takes place between the wet and dry seasons and problems arose when farms where built along the migratory routes of the Asian elephant herds, as the Asian elephants caused a great deal of destruction to the newly founded farmland.  

Asian elephants are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that they need to survive. Asian elephants eat a wide variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, shoots, barks, fruits, nuts and seeds. Asian elephants often use their long trunk to assist them in gathering food.  

Due to their large size, Asian elephants have very few predators within their natural environment. Besides human hunters, tigers are the primary predator of the Asian elephant, although they tend to hunt the smaller Asian elephant calves rather than the much larger and stronger adults.   

Female Asian elephants are generally able to breed by the time they are 10 years old, and give birth to a single Asian elephant calf after a 22 month gestation period. When the Asian elephant calf is first born, it weighs about 100 kg, and is cared for not only by it\'s mother by also by other female Asian elephants in the herd (known as aunties). The infant Asian elephant remains with its mother until it is around 5 years old and gains its independence, with males often leaving the herd and female calves staying.  

Today, the Asian elephant is considered to be an animal that is in immediate danger of becoming extinct due to the fact that Asian elephant populations have been declining at a critical rate. Asian elephants are thought to be suffering primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation and hunting for their ivory tusks by human poachers.


		 	      

	      The Balinese cat was first registered in the USA in the 1920s as a longhair Siamese cat, and it wasn't until the mid 1950s that the Balinese cat was classified as a new breed of domestic cat.  

The Balinese cat is very much like the Siamese cat in characteristics but the Balinese cat generally has longer hair and is more likely to have markings on its fur. The Balinese cat is about the same size and weight as the Siamese cat and also tends to be found in similar colours.  

The Balinese cat is a popular longhair household cat as the Balinese cat does not need grooming as much as other long-haired cats, such as the Himalayan cat and the Persian cat. The elegant features of Balinese cat also make it a popular breed in Western households.   

The Balinese cat is a very affectionate feline and adores human attention. The Balinese is also a playful and energetic breed of cat and is most happy when it is active and playing.  

The Balinese is an extremely intelligent breed of cat, and it is thought that the Balinese cat is the most intelligent breed of ling-haired cat. The Balinese also has a remarkably long lifespan for a domestic cats as the Balinese often reaches 20 years old.		 	      

	      The bearded dragon (also known as the dragon) is found naturally in Australia, but bearded dragons are kept as exotic pets in many places all around the world.  

Bearded dragons can grow up to 24 inches long but that is including their long tail, making the bearded dragon fairly small in body size for a lizard.  

Bearded dragons feed mainly on insects, crickets and worms and like all reptiles enjoy spending their days on a rock under the sun recharging until nightfall when the bearded dragon is much more active .  

The bearded dragon is known to be docile and trusting yet outgoing and curious! The bearded dragon is a quite and gentle lizard and the bearded dragon is therefore a popular exotic pet for children.  

The bearded dragon is a territorial lizard and should be keep in a big enough enclosure if the bearded dragon is kept as a pet. The bearded dragons diet is made up mainly of leafy greens which the bearded dragon plucks from trees and bushes.  

Bearded dragons go through a  period every year that is similar to a mammal's hibernation. The bearded dragon tends to become lethargic and the bearded dragon will not come out that often. The bearded dragon will also be eating less and the bearded dragon does this for a period of two to three months.   		 	      

	       The personality is ever-bright, it easily substitutes ball retrieving for bird retrieving, and will swim with agility in any aquatic environment. It is excellent with children (better, some say, than its cousin Cocker Spaniel) and is an instinctive swimmer. They do require daily exercise and weekly grooming to keep the coat matting under control.  

The breed is a definite working dog with ideal retriever instincts, enthusiasm, and endurance. They say that the Boykin is the dog that doesn't rock the boat. Ideally, at around 35 pounds, the Boykin will not upset a canoe or smaller boat while hunting marsh and flooded timber.  

 This is a southern-bred dog,so big water in colder climes like the Chesapeake Bay and north are not appropriate for this breed when used as a duck hunting dog unless the dog's coat is weather conditioned and has a neoprene jacket available. They make excellent upland hunters that naturally quarter and flush game within gun range.		 	      

	      Albatross Classification and Evolution
The Albatross is a large species of sea-bird found throughout the southern Pacific and even into the colder Antarctic regions. There are 21 different species of Albatross found across the southern seas, but sadly 19 of the different Albatross species are said to be threatened with extinction today. The Albatross is closely related to other sea-birds including Petrels, which are all unique among Birds due to the tubular nostrils on either side of the top of their bill, meaning these Birds are often referred to as Tubenoses. The Albatross was first brought into the public spotlight with Coleridge's 1798 poem, the Rime of the Ancient Mariner.  
Albatross Anatomy and Appearance
The Albatross is one of the largest Birds in the skies as the wingspan of the male Wandering Albatross can easily reach 3.5 meters or more in length, meaning that it has the largest wingspan of any Bird. The Wandering Albatross also has a body that is more than 1 meter long (including the tail), with the size of other species generally being slightly smaller. The Albatross is an easily identifiable Bird with long, narrow wings, a large head, and a long, strong bill which is hooked at the end and has sharp blades on either side to handle slippery prey. There are three toes on each of the Albatross's feet with webbed skin between each one. Unlike many other species of Bird, the Albatross has no hind toes as these sea-birds simply have no need for them.  
Albatross Distribution and Habitat
All 21 different species of Albatross are mainly distributed throughout the southern Pacific, with some species found far into the Southern Ocean. Although the Albatross is not found in the northern parts of the Atlantic, a number of species of found in the north Pacific, with the Wading Albatross being the highest up, with it's nesting sites found on the Galapagos Islands. The Albatross is unique among many Birds as it is air-bound for the majority of it's life. Albatrosses spend their entire lives gliding above the waves and are known to fly thousands of miles in a very short space of time. During the breeding season, the Albatross finally returns to dry land, where they nest in large colonies on the cliffs of remote, rocky islands that are generally inside the Antarctic Tundra.   
Albatross Behaviour and Lifestyle
The tapered wings of the Albatross means that it tends to glide through the air rather than flying which uses much more energy. The Albatross is known to practice a flying technique known as dynamic soaring, meaning that the Albatross makes use of the up-drafts of wind above the waves to give it extra lift, for longer periods of time, and without really doing anything. The Albatross has excellent eyesight as it sees it's prey from the sky, swooping down to snap a Fish from the surface or sometimes even diving into the water. They are known to also have an exceptional sense of smell which allows them to detect both prey and their breeding grounds, even in the dark.  
Albatross Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Albatross nests in large colonies on islands, where there can be thousands of other Albatross individuals, some of which have been flying solidly for up to 7 seven years until they reach the age of sexual maturity. After a unique courtship display which involves grunting and scraping their beaks, males and females pair off to mate. The female Albatross lays just one egg that can weigh up to half a kilo, in a basic nest on the ground. The Albatross parents take it in turns to incubate the egg for 2-3 months depending on the size of the Albatross species. The Albatross parents protect and clean their chick until it is able to fly. Albatross chicks can take anywhere from 5 to 10 months to fledge, depending on the size of the Albatross species. They are very long living Birds with an average age of between 40 and 50 years old.  
Albatross Diet and Prey
The Albatross is a carnivorous Bird as the diet of the Albatross solely consists of Fish and other aquatic animals. The Albatross feeds on Fish, Squid, Krill, Crabs and other Crustaceans by either diving, swooping down onto the water's surface, or from scavenging the kill from another animal. They are also known to eat both carrion and refuge that is floating on or close to the surface of the water. The excellent sight and smell of the Albatross, along with it's well-designed and razor-sharp beak, means that this animal is perfectly adapted for a life at sea. Chicks are fed by the highly nutritious yet foul smelling stomach oil of their parents until they are able to handle solid, and more slippery meals.  
Albatross Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Albatross is so big and the fact that the Albatross spends nearly it's whole life in the safety of the sky, the Albatross has no real predators besides Humans who have hunted them in the past.  The Albatross also nests in such remote places that they are safe from nearly all other animals with the exception of some Tiger Sharks who are known to lay in wait when the young Albatross chicks are learning how to fly, greedily hoping to snap up any stragglers. The interesting thing about this is that the Tiger Sharks appear to return to the same spot every year, knowing that the Albatross chicks will be practising their launching and gliding techniques, and they are therefore guaranteed an easy snack  
Albatross Interesting Facts and Features
Albatrosses are known to be able to cover thousands of miles in a short space of time with the Grey-Headed Albatross being able to fly so far, with such little effort that they can complete a full circle around the Earth in just over a month. The Albatross was made famous by Samuel Taylor Coleridge's poem at the end of the 1700s, which indicated that these enormous sea-birds embodied the souls of drowned sailors. This led to a great deal of superstition surrounding the hunting of the Albatross, as it was thought to be very bad luck amongst seafarers.   
Albatross Relationship with Humans
An estimated 100,000 Albatrosses, of various different species, are thought to be killed every year by illegal fishing in the Southern Ocean, predominantly for Tuna. These fishermen use long fishing lines, with baited hooks which Albatross can be easily caught up in when they are simply trying to catch their supper. It is thought that the females are actually at a greater risk from these lines than the males, due to the fact that the two tend to feed in differing regions. Despite some superstition towards killing the Albatross by sailors, they were hunted quite vigorously by Humans during the 19th century for their feathers which were used to stuff pillows.   
Albatross Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, 19 out of the 21 different Albatross species are listed as animals that are Endangered in their natural environments. Although the populations of the remaining two species are not quite as low, numbers are falling and both are considered to be Threatened species. The main reason for the drastic decline in Albatross numbers across the southern seas, is lone-line Tuna fishing, which these enormous sea-birds can become easily caught on.


		 	      

	      African Tree Toad Classification and Evolution
The African Tree Toad is a small species of Toad found in the forests of Central Africa. Today, little is still known about this tiny amphibian and the constantly decreasing population numbers of the African Tree Toad are making it increasingly difficult for us to learn more about them. There are two known subspecies of the African Tree Toad, which are the African Tree Toad and the Bates' Tree Toad. Both African Tree Toad species are of similar size and colour but tend to differ in the geographical regions they inhabit.  
African Tree Toad Anatomy and Appearance
The African Tree Toad is generally dark to light brown in colour, with white patches on it's belly and like other Toad species, the African Tree Toad has specially designed feet which aid it's semi-aquatic and tree climbing lifestyle. The African Tree Toad is a terrestrial animal and uses it' s toes to also help it to hop about on the ground. The toes of the African Tree Toad are long and thin, with sticky, round discs on the tips. These widely spread digits enable this Toad to grip onto a larger surface area. The tiny striped body of the African Tree Toad grows up 3.8cm in length making these animals particularly hard to spot amongst the debris on the forest floor.  
African Tree Toad Distribution and Habitat
The African Tree Toad is said to be distributed across it's natural Central African range in countries such as Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Nigeria. Despite this though, there are very few records of this elusive amphibian meaning that much of it's distribution (and indeed population size) is simply presumed. The natural habitat of the African Tree Toad is subtropical or tropical moist, lowland forests and heavily degraded former forest, where there is a plentiful water supply. Today however, the African Tree Toad is generally restricted to taller forests.  
African Tree Toad Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like other Toads, the African Tree Toad is a semi-aquatic animal, although it is most commonly found in water when the female is laying her eggs. In a similar way to other tropical Toads, the African Tree Toad spends much of it's life walking, hopping or running about on the ground where it is able to find plenty of food and water. When darkness falls however, the African Tree Toad retreats high into the surrounding vegetation to remain safe during the night from ground-dwelling predators. The colour and markings of their skin, gives the African Tree Toad camouflage amongst the surrounding forest, again giving it extra defence from hungry predators.  
African Tree Toad Reproduction and Life Cycles
Little is really known about the reproduction of the African Tree Toad besides the fact that female African Tree Toads are known to lay up to 200 sticky eggs in small bodies of water found in hollow tree cavities. These spawning sites are then guarded by the male African Tree Toad until the tiny eggs hatch into tadpoles. It is unknown what the tadpoles feed on, but once developed, they hop out of their watery nest in the tree and begin hunting for food in the forest. African Tree Toads in captivity usually live until they are three or four years old but nothing is known about their lifespan in the wild.  
African Tree Toad Diet and Prey
The African Tree Toad is a carnivorous amphibian that shoots it's long, sticky tongue out of it's mouth at incredible speeds to catch and secure it's prey. This also helps the Toad to hold onto it's catch whilst it is trying to eat it. The African Tree Toad primarily hunts small invertebrates including Insects, Worms and Spiders that scuttle amongst the debris on the forest floor. In a similar way to other Toad species, it is thought that the African Tree Toad sits in silence, waiting for lunch to pass by, before catching it with lighting speed.  
African Tree Toad Predators and Threats
Due to its small size, the African Tree Toad is believed to have numerous predators within it's warm and wet, woodland environment. Fish, Birds, Lizards, Snakes, rodents and other, larger amphibians like Frogs and Toads are all thought to be common predators of the African Tree Toad. The largest assumed threat to the African Tree Toad is habitat loss in the form of deforestation and, to a lesser extent, both air and water pollution in their natural habitats. Little is known however about the direct affects of habitat loss on the species as a whole.  
African Tree Toad Interesting Facts and Features
Very little is known about the African Tree Toad, as only a handful of records exist throughout it's very limited range, and there are in fact no records that confirm it's existence through much of it's so-called natural habitat. It is simply just assumed that the African Tree Toad exists in these areas.  
African Tree Toad Relationship with Humans
Although having been studied on a small scale by people, relatively little is still known about this tiny Toad. They have however been known to be involved in the exotic pet trade. The small size of the African Tree Toad makes them very hard to spot in their native habitats meaning that the affect of Human activity on the Toads in these areas is still unknown. Deforestation through much of their natural range, along with growing industry causing rising levels of pollution, are thought to be causing the African Tree Toad population to decline.  
African Tree Toad Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the African tree toad is rarely seen in the African forests but it has been classified as a species that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the near future. This is however, based on their presumably wide distribution throughout Central Africa, despite the fact that they are only known to actually exist in a handful of these areas. It is widely assumed that the African Tree Toad populations are in decline.

		 	      

	       The American Pit Bull Terrier is a strong-willed, sturdy companion. It is a breed that is loyal to friends and family, and friendly to strangers. With guidance from its handlers, American Pit Bull Terriers are obedient and show a high desire to please. However, when left without direction they can become stubborn and may become aggressive.

According to a study done by CDC , American Pit Bull Terriers account for the majority of fatalities in the US among all breeds. During the years 1979 - 1996, 60 people have been killed by American Pit Bull Terriers. The breed with the next highest fatalities is the Rottweiler with 29.  

A well bred American Pit Bull Terrier should have a stable and dependable temperament. The American Temperament Testing Society shows a pass percentage of 84.3% for American Pit Bull Terrier, a 0.2% higher passing rate than the commonly considered 'family dogs' such as Golden Retrievers.  

 However, a firm, even hand and early obedience training are strongly recommended for this breed. They generally have a lot of energy and high prey drive.   

They need exercise and stimulation in order to channel their energy properly and not become frustrated, bored, and destructive.		 	      

	      Ainu Dog History and Domestication
The Ainu dog is thought to be one of the oldest breeds of dog in the world, first bred by the indigenous Ainu people of Hokkaido, to hunt Salmon, Deer and Bears. Despite being hunter-gatherers that survived in freezing conditions, the Ainu are thought to have kept Dogs from the very beginning and respected them in nearly the same way as other Humans. The Ainu Dog is thought to have descended from medium-sized Dogs that arrived on the island with migrants from the main island around 3,000 years ago. Today, despite it's strong links to the Ainu people, it is more commonly referred to as the Hokkaido-Ken by the native Japanese people. Although the characteristics of the Ainu dog are thought to have changed a little over the years due to cross-breeding, this breed is said to still have a very wild streak.  
Ainu Dog Physical Characteristics
The Ainu Dog is a medium sized canine that is well known for it's strength and power. Generally the double coat of thick fur used to keep the Dog warm, is light in colour, with white, grey and fawn being especially common. They are known to have a fearsome expression, due to their small dark, brown eyes, a broad head and a pointed muzzle that is tipped with a black nose. The ears of the Ainu Dog are small and sharply pointed making this breed appear even more alert. The tongue of the Ainu Dog is commonly covered in black spots which is said to suggest a relation to the Chow Chow, a smaller species of domestic Dog that is natively found in neighbouring China.  
Ainu Dog Behaviour and Temperament
The Ainu Dog breed is a naturally wild and powerful Dog, making this breed an excellent guard Dog, They are also suspicious and alert and incredibly courageous when needing to protect their owner. The Ainu Dog is well known for it's faithfulness, bravery, and the ability to withstand the cold, among it's other desirable traits. It has an innate sense of direction and can therefore return to it's master no matter how great the distance it has travelled alone. The Ainu Dog is also known to howl, making a similar sound to that of a Wolf, when it believes it has done good by it's keeper. They are incredibly active Dogs and are known to not be suitable for apartment living or in households that contain other animals or young children.  
Ainu Dog Breeding
The Ainu Dog was originally bred by the indigenous hunter-gathers to both help them to catch food, but also to protect them from large animals. Since then, the breed has changed slightly from these original Dogs, due to cross-breeding with similar domestic breeds throughout the Far East. Despite it's long history as a working breed, the Ainu Dog ideally now combines the roles of family pet and hunter. Today, Ainu Dogs are most commonly kept for hunting or as guard Dogs due to their alert and incredibly bold nature. On average, the female has around 7 puppies per litter which, like many other canines, are born both blind and with hardly any fur. Within their first month however, the Ainu Dog puppies will be up on their feet and begin to grow fast. The Ainu Dog can live to be 14 years old and is known to have relatively few genetic health issues.  
Ainu Dog Interesting Facts and Features
The Ainu Dog has made a name for itself through it's courage nature, known to actually take on very large Bears, a number of times their size, in order to protect their owner. Today, although they can be found in households in parts of Europe and America, the Ainu Dog is most commonly found in Japan, where it remains to be considered a cherished national breed by the Japanese people. The Ainu Dog was officially named the Hokkaido-Ken in 1937, despite it's rich history with the Ainu people.

		 	      

	      The Arctic wolf is found in the most northern parts of the wolf\'s range,  in the Arctic Circle. Arctic wolves mainly inhabit Northern Canada and Alaska, parts of Greenland and Iceland and Northern Europe.   

Arctic wolves are incredibly versatile and adaptive animals, able to withstand year round sub-zero temperatures. Living in the Arctic Circle, the Arctic wolf spends five out of twelve months in total darkness.  

The Arctic wolf hunts lemmings, assorted rodents, and Arctic hare but will take larger prey like caribou when available. When the Arctic wolf wants to hunt musk ox, the pack will gather and work as a team attempt to isolate it from the herd and take it.  An adult musk ox is simply too big for one Arctic wolf to try and take on alone.   

Although the Arctic wolf is generally smaller in size than the grey wolf, Arctic wolves tend to be bulkier than grey wolves with the male Arctic wolves also growing larger than the female Arctic wolves.  

Normally, only the alpha male Arctic wolf and female Arctic wolves breed, but if a pack gets too large it may break up into new smaller packs giving others the opportunity to mate. Due to the Arctic Circle\'s uncompromising permafrost soil and the difficulty it poses for digging dens, Arctic wolves often use rock outcroppings, caves or even shallow depressions as dens instead.  

Arctic wolf pups are born in litters of two or three in the months of May and June, meaning that the Arctic wolf pups are born about a month later than the grey wolf pups.  Arctic wolves tend to be white with brown irises, unlike most other subspecies of wolves with yellow to amber eyes.  White fur gives them camouflage in a snowy environment, and the darker irises give added protection to the eyes in a high glare environment.
		 	      

	      American Eskimo Dog History and Domestication
The American Eskimo Dog is a small to medium breed of domestic Dog that, despite it's name, is actually native to Germany. With European settlers came white versions of the German Spitz but after the First World War, it's name had to be changed to avoid negative feelings towards the country at the time. Until recently the German Spitz and the American Eskimo Dog were recognised as being the same breed, but they have now been registered separately as there are actually subtle differences between the two. Three different types of the American Eskimo Dog are bred today which are the toy, miniature and standard versions. Although they differ in size, they are almost identical in both appearance and temperament.  
American Eskimo Dog Physical Characteristics
The American Eskimo Dog is a small and compact domestic breed, with a square body and a wedge-shaped head. They have small, pointed ears that are almost always erect, and a generally black nose with brown eyes. One of the most distinctive features of the American Eskimo Dog is it's beautiful snow-white coat which is quite long in places. The American Eskimo Dog has a thick double coat of fur which consists of a soft, dense under-coat, with longer, coarse hairs forming the outer layer. The American Eskimo Dog's tail is long and curved upwards, and is covered in long, white feathers. They range in size from 23cm to 43cm tall, depending on the breed type (toy, miniature or standard).  
American Eskimo Dog Behaviour and Temperament
The American Eskimo is an affectionate and loving breed, having become increasingly popular in households throughout the United States. They are hardy and adaptable Dogs, known to live easily in a variety of houses and apartments. The American Eskimo Dog is highly alert, making it a keen watchdog as they will bark to alert their owner to any approaching stranger. They are known to be good with young children as they are naturally playful by nature and are always eager to please. The American Eskimo Dog is also very intelligent having been used as a watchdog, guard-dog, in narcotics detection and for performing tricks. The American Eskimo Dog thrives on Human companionship but behavioural issues can arise if it does not have a clearly dominant owner.   
American Eskimo Dog Breeding
The American Eskimo Dog has actually existed in America for hundreds of years, but it was known as the White German Spitz until it's name was changed after the First World War. They have been bred almost exclusively as companions and sometimes watchdogs, with the three different sizes meaning that any home of any size, can now own one. They do however, need a great deal of attention. along with regular grooming of their silky fur, and like to integrate themselves into the family properly. The American Eskimo Dog has an average of 5 puppies per litter and healthy individuals can get to be more than 15 years old.  
American Eskimo Dog Interesting Facts and Features
Despite it's name, the American Eskimo Dog is thought to have absolutely no connection to Eskimo and Inuit Dogs whatsoever. In 1913, they were renamed as the American Eskimo to avoid discrimination towards the breed because of their German origins. It is thought that the most likely reason that they were named as American Eskimos is due to their snowy white coat. The American Eskimo Dog became an increasingly popular breed after having made an appearance in a number of acts at the Barnum and Bailey Circus. A number of tricks could be completed such as dancing to music and interacting with clowns, but it was the fact that one American Eskimo Dog was the first Dog to walk across a tight-rope, that really made a name for the breed. 
		 	      

	      Aye Aye Classification and Evolution
The Aye Aye is a species of Lemur that is found inhabiting the rainforests of Madagascar. The Aye Aye is not only the largest nocturnal primate in the world but is also one of the most unique and is in fact so strange in appearance, that it was thought to be a large species of Squirrel when it was first discovered. In the mid 1800s the Aye Aye was finally recognised as being a species of Lemur but was classified in a group of it's own as their closest Lemur relatives remain a mystery even today. However, these incredibly unique animals are severely threatened throughout much of their natural habitat and were thought to be on the brink of extinction by 1980, primarily due to them being killed instantly by local people who believe that seeing an Aye Aye is very bad luck. Although today population numbers seem to have risen, the Aye Aye is one of Madagascar's most endangered animal species.  
Aye Aye Anatomy and Appearance
The Aye Aye is a primate that is most closely related to Lemurs but is one of the most unique animals on the planet due the fact that it possesses a number of very distinct adaptations. Their body and long tail are covered in coarse, shaggy black or dark brown fur with a layer of white guard hairs that helps them to blend into the surrounding forest in the dark. The Aye Aye has very large eyes on it's pointed face, a pink nose and rodent-like teeth with incisors that grow continuously to ensure that they never become blunt. Their large rounded ears are incredibly sensitive giving the Aye Aye excellent hearing when listening for grubs beneath the tree bark and are able to be rotated independently. The Aye Aye has long and bony fingers with sharp pointed claws on the ends to help when dangling from branches, but it is the middle fingers on their front feet which are their most distinctive feature. Much longer than the others, these fingers are opposable with a double-jointed tip and a hooked claw on the end and are used for both detecting grubs in dead wood and then extracting them.  
Aye Aye Distribution and Habitat
Historically, the Aye Aye inhabited the coastal forests of eastern and north-western Madagascar but by 1983 they were thought to be almost extinct with only a few scattered individuals known to still be found there. Since then their population numbers have increased and although these populations aren't favourably big, they are found in an increasing number of locations and in a variety of different forest habitats. The Aye Aye prefers dense, tropical and coastal rainforest where there is plenty of cover but they are also known to inhabit secondary forest, bamboo thickets, mangroves and even coconut groves along the eastern coast of Madagascar. However, along with the persecution of the Aye Aye by local people they are severely threatened in their natural environment by habitat loss.   
Aye Aye Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Aye Aye is a nocturnal and arboreal animal meaning that it spends most of it's life high in the trees. Although they are known to come down to the ground on occasion, Aye Ayes sleep, eat, travel and mate in the trees and are most commonly found close to the canopy where there is plenty of cover from the dense foliage. During the day Aye Ayes sleep in spherical nests in the forks of tree branches that are constructed out of leaves, branches and vines before emerging after dark to begin their hunt for food. The Aye Aye is a solitary animal that marks it's large home range with scent with the smaller territory of a female often overlapping those of at least a couple of males. Male Aye Ayes tend to share their territories with other males and are even known to share the same nests (although not at the same time), and can seemingly tolerate each other until they hear the call of a female that is looking for a mate.  
Aye Aye Reproduction and Life Cycles
It was previously thought that the Aye Aye had a very strict breeding season (in the same way as other Lemurs) when they actually seem to breed throughout the year, depending on the when the female comes into season. When a female is ready to mate she calls to male Lemurs who are known to gather around her and will fight aggressively between one another for breeding rights. After a gestation period that lasts for about five months, a single infant is born and spends it's first two months in the safety of the nest, not being weaned until it is at least 7 months old. Young Aye Ayes will remain with their mother until they are two years old and leave to establish a territory of their own. A female Aye Aye is thought to be able to start reproducing when she is between 3 and 3.5 years old where males seems to be able to do so at least 6 months earlier.   
Aye Aye Diet and Prey
The Aye Aye is an omnivorous animal that feeds on both other animals and plant matter, moving about high up in the trees and under the cover of night. Males are known to cover distances of up to 4km a night in their search for food, feeding on a variety of fruits, seeds, insects and nectar. They are however specially adapted to hunt in a very unique way as they use their elongated middle finger to tap dead wood in search of the hollow tunnels created by wood-boring grubs, listening for even the slightest sound with their sensitive bat-like ears. Once the Aye Aye has detected it's prey it uses it's sharp front teeth to gnaw a hole into the wood before inserting the long middle finger, hooking the grub with it's claw and extracting it (filling the same ecological niche as a Woodpecker). The Aye Aye is also known to use this long digit to eat eggs and coconut flesh and is thought to be the only primate to use echolocation when searching for food.   
Aye Aye Predators and Threats
The secretive and tree-dwelling lifestyle of the Aye Aye means that it actually has very few natural predators in it's native environment, with the agile and equally nocturnal Fossa being their most ferocious natural predator (along with Birds of Prey and Snakes that hunt the smaller and more vulnerable young). Humans are in fact the biggest threat to the Aye Aye as populations have been obliterated in much of their native forests due to superstition from local people who believe that it is a bad omen to see one. In other areas where they are not feared in this way, the Aye Aye is hunted as bushmeat. The biggest threat however to current populations is habitat loss caused both by deforestation and growing Human settlements that encroach on the Aye Aye's natural habitat.   
Aye Aye Interesting Facts and Features
Although the Aye Aye is a solitary animal, males have very loose territories that can overlap those of a number of others. They build their nests high in the trees and will rarely sleep in the same one two nights in a row which means that one territory can contain numerous nests, with up to six thought to be found in just one tree. The Aye Aye is thought to be one of the creepiest creatures in the world with it's name believed to have come from the cry of alarm when a person spotted one. Despite now being found in more areas of it's once vast range, Aye Aye population numbers were once so low that they were actually thought to be extinct in the wild until 1957 when they were rediscovered.  
Aye Aye Relationship with Humans
The main reason why Aye Aye population numbers have been critically low for years is that local people think that they are just too weird and many believe that seeing one is very bad luck indeed. One story says that if an Aye Aye points it's long middle finger at you that you will die, and other stresses that seeing one will lead to the death of a villager. The only way of stopping this in both cases is to kill the Aye Aye as quickly as possible which has led to the extinction of populations in certain areas. Today though, the Aye Aye is also faced with the increasing size of towns and villages that encroach on it's native habitats with some individuals forced to invade crops to get food, which often leads to them being shot. They are also severely threatened by deforestation for the logging industry and to clear land for the creation of agricultural plantations.  
Aye Aye Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Aye Aye is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Endangered meaning that it is severely threatened from possible extinction in the near future. Numbers have increased somewhat since the 1980s and small populations have been sighted in more areas of their natural range however, they are still greatly threatened by the Human activity going on around them. A number of captive populations can be found around the world in breeding programs to try and save the Aye Aye from complete extinction. A small population can also be found on the island of Nosy Mangabe, which is a protected reserve just off Madagascar's north-east coast.

		 	      

	       Anteaters are found throughout the Southern Hemisphere but are more common in Africa, Asia and parts of Australia. The name anteater is given to any medium size insect eating mammal such as the giant anteater, the collared anteater, the silky anteater, the spiny anteater and the echidna which is native to Australia.  

The average anteater is nearly a meter in length although some species can be bigger (like the giant anteater that gets to nearly 2m long), where others can be smaller (like the silky anteater that only grows to around 30 cm).  

The giant anteater is found in parts of central and south America where it inhabits grasslands, forests, jungles and even the lower mountain regions. The giant anteater is known to be able to consume more than 30,000 insects (mainly termites) every day!  

The giant anteater is the largest of four anteater species and can be five to seven feet long from nose to tail. The giant anteater has a narrow head, a long nose, small eyes and round ears.  

The giant anteater has coarse hair which can be grey or brown in colour, with a white-banded black stripe running along the giant anteater\'s body. The giant anteater also has a long, bushy tail which can be two to three feet long.  

The giant anteater\'s front feet have large claws, which are curled under when the giant anteater walks. Although the giant anteater has poor vision the giant anteater is able to detect food using its keen sense of smell.  

Despite their soft appearance, anteaters are more than ready to defend themselves against predators and have been known to become very aggressive towards them. Anteaters primarily use their powerful legs and long claws to warn off larger animals including cougars, jaguars and even humans.  

Female anteaters give birth to a single baby after a gestation period of around 6 months. The baby anteaters spend their first couple of years with their mother and usually become independent when she is pregnant again. In order to remain safe from waiting predators on the ground, baby anteaters spend much of their nursing period clinging to the back of their mother.  

Today, the giant anteater population numbers are declining mainly due to habitat loss and over-hunting by humans. Although considered vulnerable animals, the giant anteater is not thought to be in immediate danger of extinction but recent reports indicate that there may be less than 5,000 giant anteater individuals left in the wild.
		 	      

	      Black Bear Classification and Evolution
The Black Bear (also known as the American Black Bear) is a medium sized species of bear that is found inhabiting a variety of forested habitats across North America. The Black Bear is not only the most widespread bear on the North American continent but it is also the most numerous bear species in the world with there thought to be double the number of Black Bear individuals than all the other species put together. The Black Bear is also one of the only two out of the eight bear species that is not listed by the IUCN as being endangered as extensive conservation efforts added to their versatility has led to healthy populations throughout much of their remaining natural range (providing that there is a good source of food). There are sixteen recognised sub-species of Black Bear found across North America today, which vary mainly in their size and fur colour along with the region in which they live.  
Black Bear Anatomy and Appearance
Despite their name, Black Bears can range in colour from black to dark red or brown and can even be a lighter tan in certain areas. They have short thick fur covering their heavily built body and have a pointed muzzle, small eyes and larger and more pointed ears than their Brown Bear relatives. Along with being a great deal smaller, there are a number of other notable differences between the two species including the Black Bear lacking the distinctive shoulder hump of their larger cousins. They also have shorter legs and claws which makes the Black Bear a much more agile climber than the Brown Bear so in areas where the two exist in the same place, Black Bears are able to escape danger by digging their claws into the tree trunk and pulling themselves up. Like all bear species though, the Black Bear has an excellent sense of smell which is used to detect food and less developed hearing and sight, due to their relatively small ears and eyes.   
Black Bear Distribution and Habitat
Although the Black Bear is still widespread throughout much of North America today, their historical range once covered the entire continent where they would have been found in every inhabitable patch of forest. Today they are found from northern Canada, throughout western and parts of eastern USA, and down into northern Mexico. Providing there is a forest habitat of some description these incredibly adaptable animals will try their best to survive successfully there and they are actually found in a number of very diverse regions. Black Bears are known to inhabit the hot and dry, shrubby forests of Mexico and the steamy, hardwood swamps of the south-eastern USA, right up to the coniferous forests of Canada and Alaska and the barren treeless tundra even further north. Despite local populations in some areas being affected by loss of their natural habitats, the resilience of the Black Bear means that populations in most areas are actually increasing.  
Black Bear Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Black Bear is a largely solitary and nocturnal hunter, that may occasionally tolerate the presence of other individuals when a number gather around an ample food source. Black Bears spend the majority of their waking life searching for food in the surrounding forest and must eat vast quantities of plant matter every day to ensure that they build up a decent fat reserve for the coming winter. When the hostile winter conditions set in, Black Bears retreat into a den under a hollow tree or in a burrow, where they semi-hibernate through the cold months ahead. Although this is not true hibernation as their body temperature only drops minimally, it means that they are able to wake up and venture out in search of a light snack to break up their long slumber. In hotter regions in the south Black Bears may not bother denning over the winter at all (with the exception of pregnant females), but in the most northerly parts of their range they may not emerge until 8 months later.  
Black Bear Reproduction and Life Cycles
Male and female Black Bears will briefly come together to mate in the summer, after which time they will become solitary once again and both will begin to start feasting to prepare for winter. After a gestation period that lasts for around 7 months (although this includes an almost 5 month long period of delayed implantation), the female Black Bear gives birth to between one and five cubs at the end of winter in her den. The hairless cubs are incredibly vulnerable and rely on the warmth created in the den from their mother's body heat to help them to survive the early days. Black Bear cubs remain with their mother until they are nearly two years old, learning the skills that they need to survive on their own, and will even share her winter den over their first winter. After around a year and a half, the female Black Bear will again be looking to mate and cubs are often eventually scared away from her by increasingly aggressive, mature males.  
Black Bear Diet and Prey
Despite being technically classed as a carnivore, the Black Bear has a diet that is mainly comprised of plant material. Between 75% and 95% of their diet is vegetarian (depending on the food available in different locations) and it is also greatly varied. Black Bears forage for fruits and nuts in the trees which they pluck off the branches using their prehensile lips, along with eating grasses, roots and bulbs on the ground and supplementing their diet with small animals like insects and rodents. Depending on the region and therefore the prey available, Black Bears are also known to hunt young Deer, eat carrion and can also master the art of catching fish in rivers (a skill that is particularly used in areas where they are no Grizzly Bears to compete for food). Due to their large body size though, Black Bears must spend the vast majority of the night eating and will spend an average of 12 hours a day trying to build up it's fat reserves for winter.  
Black Bear Predators and Threats
Due to the relatively large size of the Black Bear, fully grown adults have few natural predators within their native habitats with the exception of Grizzly Bears in some areas. However, the Black Bear has evolved to have shorter claws and legs than their enormous and aggressive cousins, making them far more adept at climbing trees and giving them a good chance of escape. Young cubs however, are much more vulnerable and are threatened by a variety of different predators including Foxes, Birds of Prey and even other Black Bears. Although Black Bears and Humans do tend to have a relatively peaceful relationship, they are often persecuted by farmers who fear for their livestock in areas where growing Human settlements are encroaching on their natural territories. A number of isolated populations are also threatened by loss of their habitats mainly due to deforestation for logging.  
Black Bear Interesting Facts and Features
Bears differ from other carnivores as the special molar teeth that they possess have not specially adapted to shearing meat, but to instead grind down vegetation. However, for such a large animal to sustain itself successfully on a predominantly vegetarian diet the Black Bear must spend an enormous amount of time eating and is known to consume tens of thousands of nuts and berries in a day. As they spend around half of the day foraging for and eating food, the average Black Bear consumes a nut or berry every second of this time. Although Black Bears normally move around slowly on all fours on the flat soles of their feet, they are not only able to run at speeds of up to 30mph but when they feel threatened, Black Bears will stand up on their hind legs to make themselves look even bigger in an attempt to intimidate a predator or rival, which leads to aggressive fighting if neither side backs down.   
Black Bear Relationship with Humans
Black Bears would have once roamed throughout every forested area on the North American continent but although they are still widespread today, the hunting of them by people and the loss of their natural habitat in some areas has led to declines in population numbers. However, these incredibly versatile and adaptable animals have managed to continue surviving successfully and their placid nature has led to them not being scared of people, they have adapted to living close to growing settlements and have been known to raid cars and outbuildings in search of food. Black Bears are also common in a number of national parks with raids on camp-sites by Black Bears sometimes causing problems when food is left in or around tents. Although the shooting of Black Bears is legal in many states, it is said to be so well-regulated that populations throughout much of their natural range appear to actually be increasing.   
Black Bear Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Black Bear is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Although a few remote populations are threatened by increasing levels of both hunting and habitat loss, Black Bears remain common and widespread throughout much of North America's forest. The regulation of Black Bears is also well-managed and although between 40,000 and 50,000 individuals are killed every year (depleting up to 20% of the population in some areas), the general population trend is increasing.
		 	      

	      Alaskan Malamute History and Domestication
The Alaskan Malamute was developed by a tribe of Innuit known as the Mahlemuts, who wanted to create a working Dog that could pull heavy loads, as well as assisting with hunting, but one that could also withstand the harsh winter conditions. They are believed to have originated from primitive domestic Dogs that accompanied prehistoric people on their migrations between Asia and the Americas. Although cared for well and treated fondly, they were used by the Mahlemuts very much as a working breed to pull heavy sledges, hunt Seals, and packs were even sent after Polar Bears that were causing trouble. Travelling into the USA in the early 1900s, Alaskan Malamutes quickly became a popular working breed and were even used in service during both World War One and World War Two.  
Alaskan Malamute Physical Characteristics
The Alaskan Malamute is a large, Wolf-like Dog, but despite it's appearance, the Alaskan Malamute is not a hybrid of a Wolf but did in fact originate from other domestic breeds. They have a broad, and heavily boned body that adds to this Dog's sheer strength, which is slightly longer in length than it is high. The Alaskan Malamute has a thick, double-coat of fur, which like other northern domestic breeds, acts as a water-resistant layer, keeping the Alaskan Malamute's skin both warm and dry. Due to a wide dispersion of this breed today, the Alaskan Malamute can be found in colours ranging from black to grey to red, but all have similar distinctive white markings. They have a heavy, pointed head and ears that stand straight up on the top of their head. The tail of the Alaskan Malamute is distinctively curved upwards with slightly feathered fur.   
Alaskan Malamute Behaviour and Temperament
The Alaskan Malamute is an intelligent breed of Dog and can become easily bored if it has little mental or physical stimulation. They were originally bred by the Innuit people as strong, yet gentle sled Dogs, that could easily pull heavy loads at a steady speed as well as being able to handle the uncompromising Arctic conditions. The Alaskan Malamute is affectionate, friendly and loyal, and completely devoted to it's owner, providing that they assert themselves as the leader of the pack. Alaskan Malamutes are known to get on well with children and other animals, but will generally show dominance over other Dog breeds. They are known to be a bit slow during training, but once they pick it up, they are able to perform tasks capably.  
Alaskan Malamute Breeding
The Alaskan Malamute is an old breed of working Dog, that arose from the migrations of people between Asia and the Arctic, and then back again. These trips went on for thousands of years, leading to a wide variety in the breed between different areas (for example, those Dogs found in Greenland are said to have shorter fur than those found near the Canadian lakes). Other variations were also created with the introduction of other large working Dogs into the Arctic Circle during the Gold Rush. The Dogs bred with the native Alaskan Malamutes leading to an even wider variety found in the breed today, with the purest Malamutes found around their original region which is almost completely isolated from the rest of the world.   
Alaskan Malamute Interesting Facts and Features 
The Malamute is generally slower in long-distance sled racing against smaller and faster breeds as their working usefulness is limited to travelling over long distances but at a far slower rate than that required for racing. The Malamute is one of the most unaltered of breeds, retaining its original form and function. Their affectionate nature does not make them useful as watch or guard Dogs. If a Dog owner cannot cope with a Dog that will not comply with the owner's every command, a more compliant breed should be selected. They are however, pure pack animals as this breed has a long genetic foundation of living in the wilderness with man, surrounded by other domesticated animals of approximately the same size.
		 	      

	      Alpine Dachsbracke History and Domestication
The Alpine Dachsbracke is a stocky and robust breed of Scent Hound, originally created in the mountains of Austria during the mid 19th century. Bred by mixing the larger indigenous Austrian Hounds with the short-legged Dachshund of Germany, the alpine hunters were able to create a breed that could not only be used for tracking animals, but one that was also placid enough to bring the wounded animal back to their master, without causing it any further harm. The Alpine Dachsbracke was officially recognised as the world's third Scent Hound breed in Austria in 1932, and today it is still more commonly kept by hunters and gamekeepers than as a family pet.  
Alpine Dachsbracke Physical Characteristics
The Alpine Dachsbracke is larger than many of it's closest relatives, mainly due to the fact that this breed was bred to be able to endure the high altitudes of the Austrian Alps. As in many other countries at the time, Scent Hounds that were short-legged were being created so that they would be able to track prey more closely. The Alpine Dachsbracke has a long and robust body, carried by short, stocky legs which makes this breed fairly slow-moving. They are usually red, brown or black in colour and tend to lack any really distinguishable markings. The Alpine Dachsbracke has a double coat of fur to help to keep it warm in the cold mountains. This is comprised of a thick, water-resistant top coat with a warm and soft undercoat, which both help to keep the Dog's body warm.   
Alpine Dachsbracke Behaviour and Temperament
The Alpine Dachsbracke is known for it's stamina, endurance and power, as although it is not particularly fast, their short and elongated body is very muscular and allows the Alpine Dachsbracke to follow a scent trail for long periods of time. They are not particularly aggressive Dogs and so will retrieve their master's kill, without causing it any further wounds or indeed eating it, which has made them an increasingly popular companion to hunters today. They are also a relatively friendly breed, used to working alongside hunters and other working Dogs. The Alpine Dachsbracke is an intelligent and fearless animal and should only be handled by a firm and confident owner that asserts themselves as the pack leader.   
Alpine Dachsbracke Breeding
The Alpine Dachsbracke has been bred by hunters since the middle of the 19th century to produce a hardy and robust animal, that could not only handle the tough weather conditions high up in the mountains, but one that was also courageous and sociable, making it a good companion. The Alpine Dachsbracke needs a great deal of exercise if kept as a household pet, as they have been thoroughly bred since the beginning for their stamina and vitality. They need minimal grooming and are not known to have any significant genetic health problems. Females give birth to litters averaging eight puppies, which are born blind. The Alpine Dachsbracke gets to an average age of 12 years old.  
Alpine Dachsbracke Interesting Facts and Features
A similar Dog was thought to have been used by hunters in ancient times, and it is thought that it was actually royalty that encouraged the Alpine Dachsbracke breed to become so popular. Between 1881 and 1885, the Crown Prince Rudolf of Habsburg, insisted that the Alpine Dachsbracke accompanied him on his hunting trips. The Alpine Dachsbracke also has a number of other names including the Basset des Alpes and the Alpenlandischer Dachsbracke, which is this Dog's official name in it's native Austria. 
		 	      

	       The Bernese temperament is a very are affectionate, loyal, faithful, stable and intelligent dog that is native to the mountains of Switzerland. The majority of Bernese are very friendly towards people, and animals including other dogs. The Bernese mountain dog is thought to be easy to train, provided the owner is patient and consistent in training as Bernese tend to need time to think things through. The Bernese mountain dog has a very nature meaning that they often get along well with other pets such as cats, and horses and small children.  

The Bernese mountain dog is known not respond well to harsh treatment, however Bernese are very willing and eager to please their master. Bernese love to be encouraged with praise and treats and this gorgeous breed is very sweet and good with children, despite their great size. Overall, they are very stable in temperament, patient, and loving.  

Bernese Mountain Dogs are quirky, loving dogs, craving love and affection. They love to lean against people, sit on their feet, or lie down under their legs while people are sitting.  

The Bernese mountain dog is part of the Sennenhund family of dogs that include the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, the Bernese Mountain Dog, the Appenzeller and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog, all of which are similar in colour and temperament but vary in size. The Sennenhund dogs were originally used to assist in general farmwork but they are also used as mountain rescue dogs in some areas of the Swiss mountains today.  

The Bernese mountain dog is one of the largest breeds of dog, with the average adult Bernese mountain dog growing to between 50 and 70 cm high. The Bernese mountain dog has a very distinctive tri-coloured coat, that is black, white and tan. It is said that the mark of well-bred Bernese is the horse-shoe shaped white marking that straddles its nose.  

Bernese mountain dogs have a lower average lifespan when compared to other dog breeds that are a similar size. The average lifespan of a Bernese is approximately 8 years, where the average lifespan of a similar breeds tends to be around 11 years. The main causes of mortality in the Bernese breed are thought to be cancer and bone problems, such as hip-displacement and arthritis.  

The Bernese mountain dog needs lots of exercise and loves to spend time outside. Owners should also be aware that due to the long, thick coat of the Bernese, they should be groomed regularly to keep it in good condition. 		 	      

	      The bandicoot is a small-sized marsupial found across Australia. There are eleven known species of bandicoot found in the Australian wilderness, and despite it\'s rat-like appearance, the bandicoot is thought to be more closely related to a rabbit.  

The bandicoot is natively found on the Australian mainland and it\'s surrounding islands. Due to their small size, bandicoots can be an easy target for hungry predators and are therefore found in more overgrown habitats including forests, swamps and thickets where there are plenty of places to hide.  

Bandicoots are very similar in appearance to the rat as they have long, pointed heads and snouts and a short and compact body with a long, thin tail. Despite this though, bandicoots are about the size of a rabbit and use their powerful hind legs to hop around in the same way. The average sized bandicoot is about 50cm including it\'s tail although male bandicoots are often double the size of the females.  

The bandicoot is a nocturnal animal meaning that it spends the daytime hours sheltering in bushland and along creek beds, coming out under the cover of night in order to hunt for food. Bandicoots are also very solitary animals, generally only coming together to mate.  

The bandicoot is an omnivorous animal meaning that it\'s diet is made up of both plant and animal matter. The bandicoot primarily hunts for and feeds on insects which it finds scuttling around in the leaves or just below the surface of the ground. Bandicoots also nibble on fruits, berries, nuts, seeds, eggs and even small rodents when they are in search of food.  

Due to it\'s relatively small size, the bandicoot has a number of natural predators in it\'s environment including large birds, foxes, snakes and wildcats. Dingoes and pythons are the most common predators of the bandicoot across Australia.  

The bandicoot is a marsupial meaning that the female bandicoot has a nursing pouch on her belly in which to nurse her developing young. Bandicoots have one of the shortest gestation periods of all mammals, with the young being born just 12 days after conception. Female bandicoots usually give birth to a litter of 3 - 6 young who continue to develop in their mother\'s pouch until they are strong enough to venture into the outside world.  

Sadly today, seven out of the eleven known bandicoot species are considered to be either critically endangered or extinct. The decline in bandicoot numbers has been a direct result of both habitat loss and the introduction of small carnivores such as cats, with the European settlers.
		 	      

	       Boston Terriers have friendly, very strong, lovable, unforgettable personalities. Bostons can range in temperaments from those that are eager to please their master to those that are more stubborn. Both can be easily trained given a patient and assertive owner.  

While originally bred for fighting, they were later down bred for companionship. The modern Boston Terrier can be gentle, alert, expressive, and well-mannered. It must be noted however, that they are not considered terriers by the American Kennel Club, but are part of the non-sporting group.  

 Boston Terrier is something of a misnomer. They were originally a cross-breed between the Old English Bulldog and the English White Terrier. Both breeds are now extinct.  

Boston Terriers are typically small, compactly built, well proportioned dogs with erect ears, short tails, and a short muzzle that should be free of wrinkles. The head is in proportion to the size of the dog and the expression indicates a high degree of intelligence.		 	      

	       The Anatolian was developed to be independent and forceful, responsible for guarding its master's flocks without human assistance or direction.  
Anatolian shepherd dogs, as name suggests, originates in Kangal region of Sivas, Turkey. they can grow up to be 240 lbs.

 These traits make it challenging as a pet; owners of dogs of this breed must socialize the dogs to turn them into appropriate companions. They are intelligent and can learn quickly but might choose not to obey; this is not a dog for a beginning or shy owner. They become very protective of other animals in the household, and will treat them as their flock.  

 They have also been known to kill bears to protect their charges. According to Turkish shepherds, three Anatolian Shepherd Dogs are capable of overcoming a pack of five wolves and kill one of two of them.		 	      

	      The black Russian terrier is confident, calm, highly intelligent, brave and loyal. However, without proper training and socialization, they can become aggressive. It should never be timid, and will not hesitate to defend the people that it loves if it thinks they are threatened.  

 The Black Russian Terrier may seem aloof, but needs human companionship and bonds deeply to its family. They are wary of strangers and take a long time to warm up to unfamiliar people, thus they make excellent guard dogs.  

 Black Russian Terriers are dominant by nature and need confident owners who have experience handling similar dogs.  

The Black Russian Terrier gives the impression of great strength, athleticism, and courage. It should be rustic (but not coarse) in appearance, and should not look as though its coat is sculpted or trimmed. It should never appear to lack substance or be weak in any way. Males should be noticeably more masculine than females.		 	      

	      Bornean Orang-utan Classification and Evolution
The Bornean Orang-utan is a large primate species that is found inhabiting the humid tropical jungles of Borneo. Also known as the Red Ape, the Bornean Orang-utan is the second largest ape species in the world (after the Gorilla) and is the largest tree-dwelling animal on the planet. Although the Bornean Orang-utan is closely related to the great apes found in Africa, they differ greatly in their behaviour with the biggest difference being that the Bornean Orang-utan is largely solitary where other ape species tend to adopt complex social hierarchies. Until recently there was thought to only be one Orang-utan species but recent genetic research has shown that there is in fact two species of Orang-utan which are the Bornean Orang-utan and the Sumatran Orang-utan, which is slightly smaller in size and tends to be more sociable than it's larger cousin. There are considered to be three different sub-species of the Bornean Orang-utan, which although are similar in appearance, are differentiated by the areas of the island that they occupy. They are the Northwest Bornean Orang-utan, the Central Bornean Orang-utan and the Northeast Bornean Orang-utan.  
Bornean Orang-utan Anatomy and Appearance
The Bornean Orang-utan is covered in patchy red or orange hair with it's coarse grey skin being visible in some places. As they are largely arboreal mammals, the Bornean Orang-utan has a number of adaptations that help it when in the canopy including having feet that can grip as effectively as it's hands, and arms that can grow to a span of more than two meters and are actually 30% longer than their legs. The face of the Bornean Orang-utan is bare and displays the grey or black colour of their skin. Mature males also develop fleshy cheek pouches which are made up of fat deposits under the skin, along with throat poaches that are able to produce a deep, resonating sound through the forest. Both male and female Bornean Orang-utans are specially designed for opening and eating fruits with dexterous hands and feet for peeling and large flat teeth that help to grind down harder seeds and tree bark.  
Bornean Orang-utan Distribution and Habitat
The Bornean Orang-utan is natively found on the island of Borneo where it inhabits areas of dense primary forest, mainly in the lowlands and valleys. Although they can be found at elevations of up to 1,500 meters they tend to prefer the lush slopes further down due to the higher abundance and variety of food. Although the Bornean Orang-utan (and indeed the Sumatran Orang-utan) were once widespread throughout south-east Asia, they are today confined to the two islands which they named after but are seriously vulnerable in their natural surroundings due to logging and forest fires which have decimated much of their once vast native regions. Due to the fact that the Bornean Orang-utan spends nearly all of it's life high in the tree canopy, they rely on these dense and rich jungles to survive and with less and less of their natural habitats remaining, they are being forced into more smaller and more isolated regions away from the increasing levels of Human activity.  
Bornean Orang-utan Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike the other great ape species, the Bornean Orang-utan is largely solitary with the exception of mother and infant pairs and the gathering of a number of individuals around heavily laden fruit trees. Bornean Orang-utans spend much of their days sitting and eating in the canopy before constructing a nest by folding leafy branches over, where they sleep at night. Bornean Orang-utans move slowly through the steamy forests and as they are too heavy to jump, they rely on swinging tree branches back and forth until they can get close enough to grab onto the next one. Despite only travelling just over half a mile a day, Bornean Orang-utans can occupy vast home ranges that are loosely shared with other individuals with males having breeding rights with any female that enters their patch, marking their presence with deep, loud calls which echo through the trees.  
Bornean Orang-utan Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Bornean Orang-utan is known to breed year round but these slow-developing and maturing animals are not able to reproduce until they are often nearly 15 years old. After a gestation period that lasts for up to 9 months, the female Bornean Orang-utan gives birth to a single infant which clings onto it's mother's fur and is completely dependent on her for up to 10 years. Despite the young Bornean Orang-utans being weaned when they are around three years old, offspring continue to shadow their mother so as to learn about what to eat and where to find it and also for safety. Eventually leaving her to establish their own territory when they are at least eight years old, young females tend to remain close to their mother whereas young males can roam the forest for a long time before they finally find a patch of their own. Bornean Orang-utans tend to live for up to 35 years in the wild but can reach almost double that age in captivity.  
Bornean Orang-utan Diet and Prey
The Bornean Orang-utan is technically an omnivorous animal which means that they find and eat a variety of both plant and animal matter. Despite this, Bornean Orang-utans love fruit with around 60% of their diet being comprised of a wide variety of both ripe and unripe fruits including mangoes, durian, figs and lychees. In the tropics though, different trees bare their fruits at different times of the year so Bornean Orang-utans must make a mental note of where the fruit trees are and when their fruits ripen. In order to supplement their diet though, Bornean Orang-utans also eat a range of plant matter including young shoots and leaves along with insects, eggs and small vertebrates such as Lizards on occasion. Although in areas where their is a rich and abundant supply of food Bornean Orang-utans are known to congregate together to feed, one of the reasons why they are so solitary is that if they lived together in a group in one area, there simply would not be enough food to go around.  
Bornean Orang-utan Predators and Threats
Historically Bornean Orang-utans would hardly ever come down to the ground in fear of being preyed upon by large carnivores like Tigers, Bears and Clouded Leopards but with the extinction of the Tiger particularly throughout much of the island males are known to spend around 5% of their time on the forest floor. However, 40,000 years ago a new threat emerged in the form of modern Humans that hunted the Bornean Orang-utan to extinction in numerous parts of their once vast natural range. Today they are protected by law but infants are still captured for the exotic pet trade and the mothers are often killed in the process. The biggest threat though to Borneo's remaining Orang-utan populations is habitat loss in the form of deforestation for logging or to clear land for farming and agriculture, primarily to make way for palm oil plantations.  
Bornean Orang-utan Interesting Facts and Features
The sound that male Bornean Orang-utans make to mark their territories comes from their developing throat pouch and is so booming that it can travel  for more than a mile throughout the forest, to not only attract females but also to intimate rival males. Bornean Orang-utans are unique amongst great apes as their arboreal lifestyle has led to their limbs having more mobility than other species, allowing them to negotiate around tricky branches more easily. In the same way however to other great ape species, Bornean Orang-utans have bee observed using tools to help them in their daily lives. Seemingly dependent on where the individual lives, skills are passed onto infants from their mothers with sticks being used to extract termites and honey and even large leaves are used as a form of umbrella to keep the Bornean Orang-utan dry.  
Bornean Orang-utan Relationship with Humans
Since their arrival in south-east Asia modern Humans have been fascinated by this slow-moving and majestic mammal with their name in the native Malay language meaning "man of the forest" or "forest people". Bornean Orang-utans are remarkably similar to us both in their appearance and behaviour with these highly intelligent creatures having evolved perfectly to their tropical, tree-dwelling lives. However, the hunting of the Bornean Orang-utan and the deforestation of it's once vast natural habitat has led to drastic declines in their population numbers particularly over the past century. Adults are often killed if they are seen in or close to plantations when looking for food and their young are captured to be sold into the exotic pet trade, despite their heavy legal protection.  
Bornean Orang-utan Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Bornean Orang-utan is listed by the IUCN as a species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and is therefore severely threatened from extinction in the near future. The loss of their historic, unique and incredibly bio-diverse habitats has led to a 92% drop in their population numbers in the past 100 years and if things continue the way they are going, it will not be long before they have disappeared from the wild forever. Rehabilitation programmes exist throughout the island and so far seem to be having relative success but with deforestation (now even in protected areas) for logging and to clear land to make way for palm oil plantations, population numbers can only be expected to continue to fall. 
		 	      

	      Airedale Terrier History and Domestication
Unlike a number of species of other domestic Dog, the origins of the Airedale Terrier are well known. This breed was created 150 years ago by working class farmers in a valley in the West Riding of Yorkshire. Cross-bred from a Welsh Terrier and an Otter Hound, the Airedale Terrier quickly became the Terrier of choice and was officially recognised in 1886. The Airedale Terrier is the largest of all Terrier breeds and was originally bred as a hunter of small animals, particularly rats. Although the large size of the Airedale Terrier meant that it cannot actually go underground, they were very efficient at catching the rats once they had surfaced. The Airedale Terrier has many desirable traits, including being very intelligent meaning that they have also been used as messengers and police Dogs.  
Airedale Terrier Physical Characteristics
The Airedale Terrier has a large square body which is only emphasised by it's incredibly straight front legs and a deep, wide chest. It's long head and muzzle are both broad and flat, and it has small pointed ears which are almost always folded down. The stiff, slightly curved tail of the Airedale Terrier is usually docked and tends to most commonly be black in colour. The majority of this breed's stocky body is tan in colour (including it's ears), with black and sometimes reddish coloured markings. Their double coat of fur is waterproof with a coarse and wiry layer, that is lined by softer warmer fur (a characteristic of the Otter Hound). The Airedale Terrier also has a very keen sense of smell due to it's combination of Hound and Terrier.  
Airedale Terrier Behaviour and Temperament
The Airedale Terrier is known to be a loyal and very intelligent breed of domestic Dog. They are known to be independent and strong-willed, and will often form a close bond with their master and family. The Airedale Terrier is an incredibly sociable Dog and does not appreciate being left without Human companionship for long periods of time. They are known to be quite destructive if they become bored. Airedale Terriers are incredibly active and should be able to get a lot of exercise, although this is something that does appear to subside slightly with age. Like other Terriers, the Airedale Terrier should be trained from an early age as they can be fairly stubborn at times, but are known to be able to co-inhabit households peacefully with other animals and children if properly trained.   
Airedale Terrier Breeding
The Airedale Terrier was first bred in the 1800s from a Welsh Terrier and an Otter Hound in order to produce a breed that had desirable qualities found in both breeds. Due to the fact that they have been bred as hunting Dogs from the start, the Airedale Terrier is naturally a very intelligent and loyal breed. Females gives birth to average litter sizes of between 7 and 10 puppies that, like many other canines, are born both blind and relatively hairless and it takes at least a couple of weeks before they are able to first see the world. Airedale Terriers should be groomed regularly to reduce the risk of heavy moulting and to prevent skin infections.  
Airedale Terrier Interesting Facts and Features
The Airedale Terrier is named after the river Aire, which runs through the surrounding valleys that this breed first originated from in Yorkshire. The area was said to have a bigger problem with rats than usual so these larger ratters begin to become the Terrier of choice with the locals. The Airedale Terrier usually lives to be around 13 years old but they are known to suffer from genetic defects including problems with their hips and eyes.

		 	      

	      The Birman Cat (also known as the sacred cat of Burma) is thought to have originated in today's Myanmar (Burma), and is thought to be a close relation of the popular Burmese cat. The Birman cat has a bright white and brown marked coat with beautiful blue eyes.  

The Birman is an intelligent breed of cat that always appears interested in its surroundings. The Birman is a gentle natured and playful animal that relies on human affection and championship.   

The legend of the Birman cat is thought to be that originally, the guardians of the Temple of LaoTsun were yellow-eyed white cats with long hair. The golden goddess of the temple, Tsun-Kyan-Kse, had deep blue eyes. The head priest, Mun-Ha, had as his companion a beautiful cat named Sinh. One day the temple was attacked and Mun-Ha was killed. At the moment of his death, Sinh placed his feet on his master. The cats white fur took on a golden cast, his eyes turned as blue as the eyes of the goddess, and his face, legs and tail became the colour of earth. However, his paws, where they touched the priest, remained white as a symbol of purity. All the other temple cats became similarly coloured. Seven days later, Sinh died, taking the soul of Mun-Ha to paradise. 		 	      

	      The armadillo is native to both North America and South America, although only one species of Armadillo is found in the United States.   

The average armadillo measures around 75cm in length, including the tail but the giant armadillo can grow to more than 1.5m long and the miniature pink fairy armadillo (the smallest armadillo species) only gets to around 10cm in length.  

There are around 20 species of armadillo still existent on the American continent with the nine-banded armadillo being the only species found outside of the South American tropics.  

The armadillo has a hard outer shell and can curl up into a ball leaving no soft body parts exposed to danger (a bit like a woodlouse). The armadillo also has long claws which the armadillo uses for digging burrows and hunting for insects in the earth.  

Despite the armadillo\'s odd shape, most armadillos can also reach a top speed of nearly 30 mph so can easily outrun most jungle predators. The primary predators of the armadillo are bears, wolves, wildcats and cougars.  

The armadillo has very poor vision which makes the armadillo somewhat vulnerable in its jungle environment. The armadillo\'s armour is formed by plates of bone covered in relatively small overlapping scales. The scales of the armadillo are known as scutes and these scutes are made up of bone with a covering of horn.  

The armadillo has additional armour that covers the top of its head, the upper parts of the armadillo\'s limbs and the armadillo\'s tail. The underside of the armadillo has no armour, and is simply covered with soft skin and fur, hence it\'s strategy of curling into a ball leaving only the armoured plates exposed.  

The armadillo is generally an insectivore meaning that the diet of the armadillo is primarily comprised of insects. Armadillos also snack on other things including worms, spiders, snakes and frogs although the exact diet of the armadillo is very much dependent on the area which it inhabits.  

Female armadillos give birth to around four young which are born after a gestation period of three to four months. After birth, the baby armadillos remain in the burrow for a few months, only feeding on their mothers milk. They then begin to forage with the mother, eventually leaving after six months to a year. Some species of armadillo are known to reproduce every year so a single female armadillo can produce up to 56 young over the course of her life. 
		 	      

	      Baboon Classification and Evolution
The Baboon is a medium to large sized species of Old World Monkey that is found in a variety of different habitats throughout Africa and in parts of Arabia. There are five different species of Baboon which are the Olive Baboon, the Guinea Baboon, the Chacma Baboon, the Yellow Baboon and the Hamadryas Baboon which differs most from the others wide it's bright red face and cliff-dwelling lifestyle (the other four species are collectively known as Savanna Baboons). However, there is some debate over the classification of the different species due to the fact that some have been known to interbreed, indicating that they could be sub-species instead. Baboons are incredibly sociable and intelligent animals that are known to form close bonds with other members of the troop that often last for life. They are also incredibly adaptable animals but their population numbers are declining throughout their natural range primarily due to hunting and habitat loss.  
Baboon Anatomy and Appearance
Baboons are large and powerfully built monkeys that spend most of their time on the ground. They have large heads with a long, dog-like muzzle and cheek-pouches for storing food with a heavy brow ridge protecting their eyes. Males are often twice the size of females and have fearsomely sharp canines that help them to defend the troop from danger, but their exact size depends on the species with the Chacma Baboon being the largest while the Guinea Baboon is the smallest species. Baboons have wild-looking fur with a longer mane that extends over the shoulders and hairless patches on their faces and rumps which are padded with hard skin. Their colour varies from olive-green to yellow, silver and brown depending on the species. They also have a distinctive bend towards the base of their long tails.  
Baboon Distribution and Habitat
Baboons would have once been found throughout the African continent and today, although they are still widespread, their natural range continues to decrease. Baboons are found in a variety of habitats including savanna, scrub, rocky deserts and rainforests providing there is an ample supply of water. The Hamadryas Baboon is found in the rocky deserts in the hills that line the coast of the Red Sea both in north-east Africa and in parts of the western Arabian peninsula. The Olive Baboon is the most widespread species with a range that extends from west to east across a wide range of habitats, whereas the Guinea Baboon is confined to a small region in the west. The Yellow Baboon is found in the east and the largest species, the Chacma Baboon is also found the furthest south, with a range that covers the southern tip of Africa.   
Baboon Behaviour and Lifestyle
Baboons are incredibly sociable animals that live in large troops that can be very varied in size and can contain a few hundred members. Baboon troops consist of both males and females with their young and form very close bonds by feeding, sleeping and grooming together. During the day they break into smaller bands of 4 or 5 females and young, that is led by a dominant male who attempts to keep other males away. The Hamadryas Baboon however, lives in much smaller groups of around 12 females and a single alpha male. Baboons live together for protection and are constantly on the look-out for dangerous predators, particularly when they are out in the open. If a threat is spotted, they make loud barks and while the males run to attack, the females and young disappear up into the safety of the trees. Baboons communicate between one another in a variety of different ways including vocals calls, facial expressions and even signal with their tails.  
Baboon Reproduction and Life Cycles
Baboons breed all year round and while they don't have a strict breeding season, there are peaks in mating and births at certain times of year (depending on the location). When a female is ready to mate, the dominant male of their sub-group will defend his right to mate with her fiercely but despite his efforts, female Baboons mate with numerous males in the group during their lives. After a gestation period that lasts for around 6 months, the female Baboon gives birth to a single infant that grabs onto her fur instantly and clings onto her. When they are born, young Baboons are contrasting colours to their parents and are tolerated by the troop until they moult and grow their adult fur after about two months. Young females remain with their mother and the two will often form very close bonds throughout their lives, whereas males are chased out of the troop and are forced to try and prove themselves to another group.  
Baboon Diet and Prey
The Baboon is an omnivorous animal that is known to eat a wide variety of both plant matter and small animals. Fruits, seeds, tough roots and flowers all make up the bulk of their diet, along with insects, eggs, lizards and rodents. However, their large size and power also means that they sometimes hunt and kill larger prey such as young Gazelles. In areas where human settlements are encroaching on their natural habitats, Baboons are also known to raid crop fields which has led to them often being seen as pests. Baboons have very similar teeth to people with a series of large, flat molars which are perfect for grinding down vegetation and surplus food can be stored in their flexible cheek pouches to be saved for later.   
Baboon Predators and Threats
Due to their size and the fact that Baboons spend the majority of their lives on the ground, they are preyed upon by numerous predators throughout their natural range. Wildcats such as Lions, Leopards and Cheetahs are the most common predators of the Baboon along with large Pythons, African Wild Dogs and Birds of Prey that hunt the smaller and more vulnerable young. People however, pose the biggest threat to Baboons as they are often hunted and killed for meat and are even shot by farmers who consider them as pests, fearing for their crops. Their numbers though are being most affected by the loss of their once vast natural habitats, which are being subjected to deforestation for agriculture or land clearance for grazing and growing human settlements.  
Baboon Interesting Facts and Features
Although Baboons retire into the safety of the trees to sleep at night, they spend nearly all of the rest of their lives on the ground and roam throughout their home ranges in search of food and water. They are known to walk many miles a day and only stop in the shade to get out of the midday sun, and are capable of travelling more than four miles between dawn and dusk. Like many other primates, Baboons take part in social grooming by picking parasites, dead skin and dirt from each other's fur. This not only strengthens social bonds within the troop but also highlights the status of the individual, with the Baboon who is being groomed having a higher status in the troop than the one who is grooming them. In order for male outsiders to be accepted into the troop, they must form a relationship with one of the females until he is then accepted by the others. This process can take months but the pair are usually known to remain close-knit friends for life.  
Baboon Relationship with Humans
Baboons have adapted remarkably well to the growing human populations throughout their natural range but the fact that they often raid crops has led to them being persecuted by farmers. They are also hunted and eaten as bushmeat in many areas of their native regions but it is their dwindling habitats that is causing the biggest problem for them. Vast areas of forest are cleared every day to make room for agriculture or to log the tropical timbers which means that Baboons have fewer areas where they can sleep safely in the trees. The grasslands are also dwindling in size as land is turned over to livestock for grazing or used for the expansion of growing settlements.   
Baboon Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, four species of Baboon are listed by the IUCN as a species that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in the wild in the near future. The Guinea Baboon is listed as a Near Threatened species. However, despite still being relatively widespread, population numbers are declining in all species due to hunting and habitat loss, with populations in certain areas rapidly becoming more and more isolated from one another. They are found throughout many of Africa's national parks and reserves where they play a vital role in the upkeep of the eco-system.
		 	      

	      There are around 100 different species of angelfish that inhabit the waters of the southern hemisphere. There are two main types of angelfish, those that live in the freshwater rivers in South America (freshwater angelfish) and those angelfish that inhabit the salty ocean waters (marine angelfish).  

The freshwater angelfish has a more triangular shape and will generally only grow to a few inches in length. The marine angelfish can grow up to 12 inches (the same length as a big ruler) and generally have very brightly coloured markings but the exact colours depend on the angelfish species.  

Both the freshwater angelfish and the marine angelfish are known to be relatively difficult fish to keep in household aquariums, as both types of angelfish require very specific water conditions. Angelfish are very susceptible to changes in the water such as salt levels and pH levels, and will often die if changes are too drastic.  

Despite the fact that their names are the same, freshwater angelfish and marine angelfish are not thought to be closely related. The freshwater angelfish is a tropical species of cichlid, distantly related to the cichlids found in specific lakes in Africa. The marine angelfish are believed to be most closely related to the butterfly fish.  

Freshwater angelfish are native to the Amazon basin and are also found in the rivers running off it. Freshwater angelfish inhabit the cleaner waters and prefer to be in temperatures between 25 and 30 degrees centigrade.   

Freshwater angelfish lay between 100 and 1,000 eggs which hatch in just a couple of days. Freshwater angelfish tend to lay their eggs on a flat leaf or an underwater log. The baby angelfish (known as fry) remain attached to the eggs for another week and feed off the remaining yolk in the egg sack. When they are bigger at a week old, the angelfish fry detach from their eggs and become free swimming. It is at this stage that the baby angelfish begin feeding from nutrients in the water and on plants.  

The triangular shape of the freshwater angelfish, means that the angelfish is able to hide more easily amongst the aquatic plants in the water. Wild freshwater angelfish have very distinctive dark stripes that run vertically down their bodies, giving the freshwater angelfish the ability to blend in to it\'s surroundings. Freshwater angelfish usually breed for life and it is often found that if one of the angelfish parents dies, then the remaining angelfish parent has no interest in breeding.  

Freshwater angelfish feed on smaller fish and invertebrates in their natural environment as well as eating particles of food found in the water. The freshwater angelfish is preyed upon by larger species of fish, birds and marine mammals.  

Marine angelfish are generally found in shallow reefs in depths of up to 50 meters. Marine angelfish are reported to be almost fearless and are noted to be inquisitive and curious towards divers. Some species of marine angelfish are solitary by nature where other species of angelfish form territorial mating pairs or even groups. The groups of marine angelfish usually have one male and a number of females.  

Unlike the freshwater angelfish, marine angelfish lay their tiny eggs straight into the water. The angelfish eggs float in the sea, becoming mixed in with the plankton, until they hatch. Unfortunately a vast number of marine angelfish eggs are inadvertently eaten by those many animals that feed on the plankton in the water.   

Marine angelfish are most well known for the bright colours and patterns on their bodies. Marine angelfish vary in colour and size depending on the species of marine angelfish, although it is known that the patterns and colours of marine angelfish change drastically as they get older. It is believed that these colour changes indicate the position of the marine angelfish, within the marine angelfish social hierarchy.  

Marine angelfish graze on algae on coral reefs and rocks are well as eating smaller fish and crustaceans such as shrimp and small species of prawn. Adult marine angelfish are preyed upon by sharks, marine mammals and humans, but the young and smaller marine angelfish are eaten by many different species of animal both in the water and those based on land (such as birds).
		 	      

	       Like many herding dogs, Cattle Dogs have high energy levels and active minds. They need plenty of exercise and a job to do, so non-working dogs need to participate in dog sports, learning tricks, or other activities that engage their body and mind.  

 Some individuals find repetitive training frustrating and dull, so owners should aim to make training sessions varied and more exciting in order to keep their dog interested. Cattle Dogs who do not receive the appropriate exercise and entertainment will invent their own, often destructive, activities.

 These dogs are, by nature, wary. They are naturally cautious, and grow more so as they age. Their cautious nature towards strangers makes them perfect guard dogs, when trained for this task.  

Cattle Dogs drive cattle by nipping at their heels or tails, but they have also been known to herd other animals.		 	      

	      The barnacle is a hardy animal that is found in or very closely to sea water. Although it is frequently confused for a mollusc because of its hard outer shell, it is actually a crustacean, closely related to crabs and lobsters.  

Barnacles are most often seen as roughly circular sessile invertebrates (which means that they cannot move on their own), and are permanently attached to the substrate they live on. In their juvenile form they are free-floating, but eventually they attach themselves to any nearby rock, shell, or other object and stay there for the rest of their lives. Their shells are composed of calcite.  

Barnacles are often seen on crabs, whales, boats, rocks and on the shells of sea turtles. Although some species of barnacle are parasitic, most barnacle species are harmless, because they are filter feeders and do not interfere with an animal's normal diet and do not harm that animal that they live on in any way. Many species of barnacle are so harmless that in fact, an animal that is covered in them, may not even notice!  

There are more than 1,000 known species of barnacle that inhabit shallow and tidal waters around the world. Although many species of barnacle are very small, some can grow to as large as 7cm and even bigger barnacles can often be seen. Barnacles typically live for between 5 and 10 years, but some of the larger species are known to be much older.  

Barnacles attach themselves to animals when they are very young and in the larvae stage of their lives. Once the baby barnacle has effectively glued itself to something hard, a thin layer of flesh wraps around the barnacle and an outer shell is produced. Once the barnacle has an outer shell, it is protected from the elements and all kinds of predators. As soon as the baby barnacle has fixed itself onto something, it is generally there for the rest of it's life.  

Barnacles are filter feeders (also known as suspension feeders) that feed on food particles that they strain out of the water. The shell of the barnacle is made up of a number of plates (usually 6), with feathery leg-like appendages that draw water into their shell so that they can feed.   

Barnacles have numerous predators, particularly when they are babies and floating around in the water looking for something to attach themselves to. As the barnacle larvae are so tiny, they float around with the plankton in the water. Once the barnacle is older and has it's tough outer shell, few predators can actually eat it. Humans are known to eat goose barnacles (the only edible species of barnacle) in parts of Europe like Spain and Portugal.  

Most species of barnacles are hermaphroditic which means that they have both male and female reproductive organs. Although it is possible for barnacles to self-fertilise their eggs, it seems to be very rare so the eggs produced by one barnacle are usually fertilised by another barnacle. It takes more than 6 months for the barnacle larvae to start developing into the hardier adult barnacles.  

Barnacles are thought to be one of the oldest surviving creatures on the planet as they are believed to date back millions of years. Although there will have been some adaptations, the barnacle is thought to have changed very little over that time.  

Despite the rising levels of pollution and changes in the water, barnacles are thought to be one of the few animals that are not greatly affected. The barnacle slides two of it's six plates across to let water in when it is feeding and then closes them again which prevents the barnacle from being too exposed to dirty water.		 	      

	      Binturong Classification and Evolution
The Binturong is a medium sized carnivore that is found inhabiting the dense forests of South-East Asia. They belong to the same family as other small carnivores including Civets, Genets, Mongooses and Fossa and share a number of characteristics with them including a long snout and having more teeth than most other carnivorous mammals. The Binturong is thought to be most closely related to the Palm Civet and is the largest member of this family. Also known as the Bearcat, the Asian Bearcat and the Asian Civet, the Binturong was once commonly found throughout much of it's historical range but sadly, today they are a rare find in the thick jungles and very little is actually known about their behaviour in the wild. There are nine different subspecies of Binturong which vary little in appearance but tend to be most easily distinguished by their size and geographic location.   
Binturong Anatomy and Appearance
The Binturong is a large, heavy animal that can grow to more than a meter long from their snout to the tip of their tail, with females being up to 20% bigger and heavier than their male counterparts. They have very long, coarse and shaggy fur which varies from dark brown to black in colour and is tipped with grey, along with tufts of long and dark straight hair which protrude beyond the tops of their ears. The Binturong (along with the Kinkajou of South America) is also unique among carnivorous mammals as they possess a prehensile tip to their tails, which acts almost like another leg helping both with climbing, and gripping onto branches to give the Binturong more stability. The Binturong also has long, white whiskers that are thick and sensitive and are found both on their checks and above their brown eyes.  
Binturong Distribution and Habitat
The Binturong was once natively found throughout China, India, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and on the island of Borneo, and although there are populations still found in a number of these countries, their numbers have been declining and the Binturong can now be extraordinarily hard to spot. Found in dense, moist jungles and in areas that are close to a slow-moving water source, the Binturong has been most affected by habitat loss particularly in the more southern parts of it's natural range. Towards the north however where the rate of deforestation is not quite as ferocious, they have been more affected by hunting and capture as well as generally expanding Human populations. The Binturong relies heavily on dense, thick forest where there is plenty of cover both in the trees and on the ground and with a big decline in it's native jungles, this mammal simply has fewer places to go.  
Binturong Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Binturong is a generally solitary and nocturnal animal that spends the majority of it's time moving about slowly and cautiously amongst the trees. Due to their large size the Binturong cannot leap between one tree and another and so must climb down to the ground to go from tree to tree. They are excellent climbers and are well aided by their strong feet, agile bodies, semi-retractable claws and their prehensile tail. The Binturong is also known to both swim and dive well and often spends time in the water to simply cool down in the heat of the sun. Although they do tend to be mainly solitary, small groups of Binturong are not uncommon and usually consist of an adult pair and their young. As with the hierarchy in Mongoose society however, it is the female Binturong who remains the dominant adult. The Binturong is known to be a very vocal animal and makes a number of sounds to both communicate with other Binturongs and to warn off species that it sees to be a threat. They are known to make chuckling sounds when they seem to be happy and appear to utter a high-pitched wail if they become aggravated.  
Binturong Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although there is not thought to be a mating season as such, there are thought to be higher instances between February and April and then later in July and November. After a gestation period that lasts for around 3 months, the female Binturong climbs down to the ground to nest in thick vegetation that is sheltered both from the elements but is also out of sight of passing predators. Between 1 and 3 small cubs are born that measure about the size of a Human fist. Like a number of other mammalian young, BInturongs are born blind and cannot hear and rely solely on their mother to provide them with milk. They are usually weaned by the time they are 2 months old and reach their adult size after a year. The Binturong is thought to live for between 10 and 15 years in the wild but can happily reach older ages in captivity with one individual having died at the age of 26.  
Binturong Diet and Prey
Despite belonging to the carnivorous mammal group, the Binturong is mainly frugivorous meaning that it survives primarily on a diet that is comprised of fruit. Although they are also known to hunt insects, birds and rodents which they stalk in a cat-like manner amongst the branches, the Binturong has evolved well to eating in the trees with front feet that are not only designed to climb and dig, but they can also hold onto fruit and even open it with their agile toes. The Binturong primarily hunts for food under the cover of night but is also known to feed whilst resting in the trees in the heat of the day. Due to their ability to swim and dive well, the Binturong also hunts fish in the water when cooling down in the heat of the day.  
Binturong Predators and Threats
The Binturong is a relatively large and slow-moving animal, yet it is not really a main source of prey to the predators that also inhabit the dense, surrounding jungle. Larger animals such as Tigers and Snakes would pose the biggest threat to the Binturong adults, along with Birds of Prey and small carnivores that could easily target one of the young cubs. The biggest threat to the world's Binturong population though is people and in a number of ways. The Binturong has been caught for their meat, captured and sold into the pet trade, subjected to vast habitat loss (mainly in the form of deforestation), and is also trapped and caught to be sold into the Chinese medicine market, where a number of their body parts are used in traditional remedies.  
Binturong Interesting Facts and Features
Like other members of the Civet family, the Binturong has scent glands which are located just under it's tail. These glands are used to mark trees and foliage to outline an individual's territory and is distributed whilst the Binturong is moving about. Oddly enough, the odour of this scent is said to smell like popcorn as are Binturong cubs when they are newborn. Until they became stronger and are more aware of their surroundings, young Binturong are incredibly vulnerable and are able to spray foul smelling liquid (like a Skunk) when they are really frightened. This is not a behaviour however that has been observed in individuals who are more than a couple of months old, because as they get bigger they are able to defend themselves more easily. When climbing, the Binturong is actually able to rotate it's hind legs backwards so that their claws still have a good grip when climbing down a tree head first.  
Binturong Relationship with Humans
This tree-dwelling mammal is actually known to be startlingly passive towards people and has been easily domesticated and kept as an exotic pet all over the world. However, it is this industry that along with other factors, has aided in the rapid decline of Binturong population numbers throughout South-East Asia. Not only having been over-exploited as pets, zoo attractions, in medicines and for food, the Binturong is also subjected to devastating loss of vast areas of it's natural habitat which has pushed the remaining populations into smaller and smaller pockets of their once large historical range. Both growing Human settlements and forest clearance for agriculture are the main culprits and seeing as the Binturong needs dense jungle to successfully survive, plantations provide no sanctuary in their dwindling homelands.  
Binturong Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Binturong is rarely seen in the wild with just a handful of sightings having been reported over the past decade. The Binturong is listed by the IUCN as a species that is Vulnerable from extinction in it's natural environment in the near future. Human encroachment on their historical habitats has meant that numbers have declined drastically and along with their capture still in many parts, has led to a 30% decline in Binturong population numbers in the last 30 years.
		 	      

	      The barracuda is a large species of fish found in the warmer, coastal regions of the world's oceans. There are more than 20 different species of barracuda that range in size from less than 50cm to nearly 2 meters in length.  

The barracuda is widely spread across the oceans but is more commonly found in the more tropical regions where there is an abundance of food. Although barracudas can be found in the deep ocean, they tend to prefer coastal habitats along continental shelves and close to coral reefs.  

Despite the difference in size and colour between barracuda species, all species of barracuda have a similar elongated appearance, and pointed head with powerful jaws, containing rows of sharp fang-like teeth used for eating larger prey.  

The barracuda is known to be an aggressive and dominant predator, often relying on the surprise tactic in order to catch it's prey. Barracudas are also able to swim at over 40 km/h in short bursts which they do to overtake prey that may be trying to swim away.  

The barracuda is an opportunistic predator, feeding only on other animals in the surrounding water. The carnivorous barracuda primarily feeds on smaller species of fish, marine invertebrates, crustaceans and squid, which the barracuda usually ambushes with tremendous power.  

Due to the fact that barracudas can grow into very large sized fish, the barracuda has few natural predators in the ocean besides sharks and killer whales. Humans are also one of the barracuda's main predators as they are hunted and eaten all around the world.  

Although little is really known about the reproduction of the barracuda, female barracuda are known to spawn during the spring. The female barracuda releases her eggs into the water which are then fertilised externally. As with many fish species, once spawned, the barracuda mother has no interest in caring for her young.  

Today, due to it's aggressive nature, the barracuda is one of the most dominant predators within it's coastal environments and has even been known to act aggressively towards humans diving or snorkelling in the water.		 	      

	      Barn owls are one of the most widely distributed birds found everywhere around the world apart from the polar and desert regions. Although this is the case, the barn owl population is more predominant in the Southern Hemisphere due to better climate conditions for the barn owl.  

Barn owls tend to measure between 25 and 40cm tall and adult barn owls can have a wingspan of up to 110cm long. The wing span of the barn owl is however dependent on the species of barn owl so some owls may be smaller, where other species of barn owl may be much bigger.  

Surprisingly, these common barn owls do not make the hoot sound that can often be heard at night. Instead the owls produce a high-pitched scream and can also hiss in a similar way to a cat or snake if the barn owl feels threatened.  

Barns owls can be most commonly seen in the open countryside and along river banks, fields and even the verges on the side of the road. Barn owls are nocturnal animals meaning that typically barn owls rest during the light day time hours and emerge at dusk to begin a night of hunting.  

Barn owls most commonly hunt small mammals such as mice, voles and rats but barn owls also hunt fish close to the surface of the water and smaller birds in the tree tops and even in the air. Barn owls swallow their prey whole and then bring back up (regurgitate) the indigestible parts such as bones in the form of a small pellet.  

Barn owls are well suited to their nocturnal lifestyle. The large eyes of the barn owl enable the barn owl to have fantastic eyesight even in the darkness of night, but barn owls also have incredibly accurate hearing. The ears of the barn owl are set with one higher than the other giving the barn owl better hearing in general but it also means that when the barn owl is hunting for prey, it can use one ear to detect noise on the ground below and the other ear is used to detect noise from the air and trees above.  

Female barn owls lay a clutch of up to 7 eggs in the warm months of spring. The female barn owl nests in a hollow tree or rock, and the barn owl eggs usually hatch after about a month. The male barn owl is known to help feed the barn owl chicks and the barn owl chicks are able to fly by the time they are 12 weeks old.  

Although the barn owl, is not considered to be a threatened species of animal, the barn owl population numbers have severely decreased over the years due to pollution and habitat loss as the barn owls are finding it harder and harder in some areas to find food. Despite this being true, the barn owl population in the UK is thought to be increasing again.  

There are more than 30 different species of barn owl found across Europe, Africa, Asia and parts of Australia and the Americas. All barn owl species have a similar appearance but can differ great in both size and colour. 		 	      

	       The Bearded Collie ranks 104 out of 155 breeds in popularity in the United States, according to the American Kennel Club's yearly publishing of breed rankings.   

 A Bearded Collie is best obtained from a reputable dog breeder or a dog rescue, not from a pet store situation where dogs are bred specifically for profit. Bearded Collies make excellent pets for those who are willing to accommodate their high energy level and grooming requirements.  

 Weekly brushing is mandatory for keeping their long hair mat-free. Some Bearded Collie owners opt to keep their pets in a puppy cut haircut, which does reduce the need for brushing, but does not eliminate it. Bearded Collies are a very high energy breed, originally bred to work in the Scottish Highlands herding sheep.   

Beardies also excel at dog agility trials. They also prefer to be kept indoors with their families.		 	      

	       Kelpies are loyal, friendly, intelligent, energetic dogs that require a challenging job to be satisfactory companions.   

They need to be stimulated as idle and bored dogs become frustrated, noisy, and destructive.With personalised love and attention, they can be very placid and faithful, although they do need space to run. For the show or bench Kelpie, walks and socialisation may be sufficient to keep them happy. A working bred Kelpie must have a job to do and plenty of exercise and mental stimulation to remain healthy and companionable.  

 A Kelpie is not aggressive towards people and cannot be considered a guard dog, though he will certainly bark when necessary. Working Kelpies may nip when working stock and should be taught early not to do so to humans.		 	      

	      The well-bred Bichon Frise is gentle mannered, feisty, sensitive, playful, and affectionate. A cheerful attitude is a prominent personality trait.  

Most Bichon Frise enjoy socializing with people and most dogs. Bichon Frise may be relatively stubborn, but are also said to be patient.  

They may tend to nip gently in play. They may have sudden bursts of energy resulting in the blitz or buzz, where they race around in circles until they collapse happily onto their backs.Bichon Frise are wonderful family dogs.  

The Bichon Frise is a small but sturdy dog that has a black nose and dark round eyes, and its white hair consists of a curly outer-coat and a silky undercoat.  

The Bichon Frise descended from the Barbet or Water Spaniel, from which came the name Barbichon, later shortened to Bichon. The Bichons were divided into four categories which are the Bichon Malteise, the Bichon Bolognaise, the Bichon Havanese and the Bichon Tenerife. All originated in the Mediterranean area.		 	      

	      Aldabra Giant Tortoise Classification and Evolution
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is a giant species of Tortoise native to the Aldabra Islands in the Indian ocean. The Aldabra giant tortoise is one of the largest species of Tortoise on the planet and is also one of the world's longest living animals, with one Aldabra Giant Tortoise individual reaching the grand old age of 255 years old. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is the only Indian ocean giant Tortoise species alive today as others have now become extinct with the arrival of Human settlers (including the Seychelles Giant Tortoise which is now thought to be extinct in the wild). The Aldabra Giant Tortoise and the Seychelles Giant Tortoise are so similar in both appearance and behaviour that they are actually thought by some to be the same species.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Anatomy and Appearance
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise has an enormous dome-shaped shell which acts as protective armour to the soft, vulnerable body of the Aldabra Giant Tortoise underneath. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise also has an incredibly long neck which it uses to tear leaves from the branches higher up trees. The male Aldabra Giant Tortoise grows to an average size of 1.1 meters long, with females being slightly smaller at a length of 0.9 meters. The males, although not really that much bigger, are also known to weigh nearly 100kg more than their female counterparts. They are slow-moving animals with thick, short legs and round, almost flat feet that help them when they are walking on the sand.   
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Distribution and Habitat
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is primarily found inhabiting grasslands and swamps on the islands of the Aldabra atoll (an island of coral  that encircles a lagoon partially or completely), which forms part of the Seychelles island chain in the Indian Ocean. They once shared these islands with a number of other giant Tortoise species, but many of these were hunted to extinction in the 1700s and 1800s. Although the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is usually found in areas of dense, low-lying vegetation, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is also known to wander into more sparse, rocky regions when food is in short supply. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise can also often be found resting in the shade, or in a very shallow pool of water to cool themselves down in the heat.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Behaviour and Lifestyle
Aldabra Giant Tortoises are found both individually and in herds, which tend to gather mostly on open grasslands. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is generally most active in the mornings when they spend the most time browsing for food, before the temperature gets too high. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is also known to dig underground burrows or rest in swamps to keep cool during the heat of the day. Despite being slow and cautious animals, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is said to be uninterested in the presence of people, indicating that one of the reasons that they were so easy for Human settlers to hunt, was simply because these animals had no fear of them.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Reproduction and Life Cycles
Female Aldabra Giant Tortoises lay up to 25 rubbery eggs between February and May, into a dry, shallow nest on the ground making them particularly vulnerable to being eaten by introduced predators. It is thought that female Aldabra Giant Tortoises are able to produce more than one clutch a year, which usually hatch after an 8 month incubation period. The baby Aldabra Giant Tortoises tend to all emerge during the same two week period which coincides with the arrival of the rainy season. They are very slow growing reptiles, and often do not reach sexual maturity until they are between 20 and 30 years old. Although some individuals have been known to live for more than 250 years, most live to be between 80 and 120 years old.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Diet and Prey
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is a herbivorous animal, spending much of it's time browsing for food in it's surrounding well-vegetated environment. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise is known to be found in places that are commonly known as "Tortoise Turf",  which is an area that contains more than 20 different grass and herb species. Aldabra Giant Tortoises also eat leaves, fruits and berries from the surrounding vegetation and are known to actually reach up on their hind legs to nibble on the treats slightly higher up. One of the biggest blows for the species with the introduction of domestic animals to the islands, was that they had competition for food that wasn't there before. Goats are known to graze very quickly, munching their way through vast areas of the Tortoise's native habitat.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Predators and Threats
Due to it's immense size and natural lack of mammalian predators, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise adults were thought to have no predators in the wild (the more vulnerable and smaller young are said to have been hunted by a giant species of Crab that lives in burrows on the atoll). However, with Human settlers came introduced predators in the form of domesticated animals like Dogs and Goats, that both preyed on the Aldabra Giant Tortoise and ate it's food. Today, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is most threatened by habitat loss from growing Human settlements, with climate change becoming an increasingly bigger threat to the species in the future.   
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Interesting Facts and Features
The Aldabra Giant Tortoise has now had four scientific names to date, mainly due to the fact that there are ongoing arguments about their similarity to other large Indian Ocean Tortoise species including the possibly extinct Seychelles Giant Tortoise. Despite population numbers having dropped through hunting, habitat loss and the introduction of new predators, one of the biggest threats to the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is the rising sea level, caused by climate change. The islands that these Tortoise's live on are only a few meters above sea level and are therefore at great risk from these rising waters.   
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Relationship with Humans
Before the 1700s, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise had no significant predators or competition for food, with all populations of the various giant Tortoise species thought to have been healthy. However, the people that arrived on the islands found both the Tortoises and their eggs, easy to catch and kill and somewhat good to eat, with mass hunting wiping out nearly all of them in less than 100 years. The Aldabra Giant Tortoise was also eaten by the domestic animals that arrived with people, with their ground-dwelling nests being particularly vulnerable. They have also now lost much of the natural habitat due to expanding Human settlements throughout the atoll.  
Aldabra Giant Tortoise Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Aldabra Giant Tortoise is listed as an animal that is Vulnerable to extinction in the wild. However, the Aldabra atoll has now been protected from Human influence after having been declared a World Heritage Site, and is home to some 152,000 Aldabra Giant Tortoises, the world's largest population of the animal. Another isolated population of the Aldabra Giant Tortoise resides on the island of Zanzibar, and other captive populations exist in conservation parks in Mauritius and Rodrigues. The captive breeding programmes on these islands are to try and revive the species, and populations on them today appear to be thriving. 

		 	      

	      Bongo Classification and Evolution
The Bongo is a large species of antelope that is found inhabiting the jungles and forests of Eastern, Western and Central Africa. They are the largest forest-dwelling antelope species and one of the most distinctive, with a chestnut coloured coat and long horns that spiral as high as 90cm in males. There are two recognised sub-species of Bongo which are the Mountain Bongo (also known as the Eastern Bongo) and the Lowland Bongo (also known as the Western Bongo), which is primarily found in the forests of Central Africa. Both species of Bongo are threatened by both hunting and habitat loss with populations having declined significantly enough for it to be listed as a near threatened species by the IUCN, as although it still has a relatively wide distribution, populations are becoming more and more isolated.  
Bongo Anatomy and Appearance
The Bongo is a large and heavy-bodied antelope with a short and glossy, orange or chestnut coloured coat that is darker on the underside and patterned with between 10 and 15 vertical white stripes that help the Bongo to remain camouflaged in the dense jungle. They also have distinctive white markings on their cheeks, a white chevron between the eyes and nose and a white crescent-like shape on their chest. The legs of the Bongo are banded with both white and black and their long tail has a tufted tip. Bongos also have large ears giving them very sensitive hearing and a long prehensile tongue which allows them to grip onto leaves higher up and strip them from the branches with ease. Their distinctive spiraled horns usually have either one or one-and-half twists, with those of males being longer and more coiled than the horns of the slightly smaller and lighter-coloured females. Bongos also have a thin mane that runs along their body from the shoulders to the rump.  
Bongo Distribution and Habitat
The Bongo is natively found inhabiting the dense forests of Eastern, Western and Central Africa and although it is still found in a number of different countries today, populations are decreasing in size with the Bongo now actually considered to be extinct from some regions. The Lowland Bongo inhabits the dense lowland forests and bamboo thickets of Western and Central Africa, and although is still found throughout much of it's historical range in Central Africa, is becoming rarer in the West. Mountain Bongos were once found in the highland forests of both Kenya and Uganda but are now restricted to just four areas in Kenya after having disappeared from Uganda at the beginning of the twentieth century. Populations have decreased rapidly throughout much of their natural range due to habitat loss, mainly in the form of deforestation.  
Bongo Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Bongo is a shy and elusive creature that is seldom seen by people due to it's highly nocturnal lifestyle. As with many other antelope species, Bongos turn and flee almost immediately when they feel threatened and can disappear quickly into the surrounding forest, running with their horns laid back against their body to prevent them from getting tangled up in the vegetation. Male Bongos are solitary and will only come into contact with other Bongos to breed, whereas although females can be found on their own, they often form herds that can contain up to 50 members and consist of the females and their young (for protection). Bongos produce a variety of different calls so they are able to communicate including grunts, snorts, moos and bleating to warn others of approaching danger or when they are in distress.   
Bongo Reproduction and Life Cycles
Most mating tends to occur between October and January, after which the female Bongo will give birth to a single calf following a gestation period that lasts for around 9 months. In order to try and protect the vulnerable calf from predators, females give birth to their calf in dense vegetation where she leaves it lying silently for about a week. During this time, the mother returns regularly to nurse her calf and when the calf is strong enough they both join-up with other females and their young for better protection. Bongo calves grow relatively fast and their horns begin to show by the time they are three or four months old. Weaning occurs at six months but calves tend to remain with the nursery group for longer.   
Bongo Diet and Prey
The Bongo is a herbivorous mammal which means that they only feed on plant matter in order to gain the nutrition that they need to survive. Bongos are selective browsers that feed on leaves, roots, bark and grasses under the cover of night to keep them safer from the numerous carnivorous predators that they share their habitats with. The Bongo has a prehensile tongue which helps it to reach fresh leaves higher up and also aids it when pulling roots out of the ground. Like other antelopes (and cattle which they are closely related too), the Bongo has a four-chambered ruminating stomach to help it to break down the cellulose that the plants contain. Food passes through their digestive system very slowly in comparison to other mammals to maximise the nutritional intake.  
Bongo Predators and Threats
Bongos are prey to numerous large predators in their surrounding environments with Leopards being their most common natural threat along with Lions in certain areas. The young calves are also vulnerable to predation from Pythons and Hyenas throughout much of their natural range. Another big threat to Bongos is the fact that they are particularly susceptible to disease with the entire population having been nearly wiped out in the late 1800s. They are however, at the biggest risk from people who don't just hunt them both directly and by setting snares but have also obliterated much of their one vast natural range through deforestation to both make way for agriculture and to gather tropical woods for the timber industry.   
Bongo Interesting Facts and Features
Although they tend to be most active between dusk and dawn, Bongos are known to occasionally browse during the day but will never leave the dense vegetation that surrounds them. To help them to cool down in the heat, Bongos wallow in mud which they then rub onto a tree as a way of polishing their smooth and heavy horns. Despite being hunted for food in many areas, in others there is a great deal of superstition surrounding the Bongo by the native people. Some believe that not only eating but just touching Bongo will cause the individual to have spasms and they are therefore not too affected by hunting in these places.   
Bongo Relationship with Humans
In many areas throughout their natural range, Bongos have been hunted by people for meat but also became a prize target for big-game trophy hunters which devastated local populations. The biggest impact that people have had on the Bongo though is the fact that vast areas of their natural habitats have disappeared to make room for agriculture and to provide grazing for livestock. This increasing closeness to Humans has led to outbreaks of disease in Bongos, along with severe population declines due to their dwindling habitats and therefore, an increasing lack of both food and suitable forest cover which Bongos heavily rely on.  
Bongo Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Bongo is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Near Threatened by extinction from the wild in the near future. Although the Mountain Bongo has always been rare it is feared that there could be as few as only 75 individuals left in the highland forests of Kenya, where they are now protected. The Lowland Bongo is becoming rarer in Western Africa but populations although decreasing, remain widespread throughout much of their historical range in Central Africa.

		 	      

	       Though they are not ideal for a first-time dog owner, because of their power and difficulty to train, their physical strength is matched by their intelligence, which makes them thoroughly reliable pets.  

 Both body and mind need to be kept active and they can be fun and playful. They are typically very affectionate dogs that love human company. Bull Terriers are particularly good with children, and usually have a high pain threshold, which reduces the risk of injury from a defensive bite.   

Younger dogs, however, may regard children as playmates and because of their strength could cause inadvertent injury. They are protective of children in their charge, and the females are especially noted for this. Bull Terriers make formidable guard dogs while their owners are away as they are fearless.  

The American Temperament Test Society, Inc. (ATTS), a not-for-profit organization that promotes uniform temperament testing for dog breeds, gives the Bull Terrier a pass rate of 92.1% as of 2008. The average for all breeds is 81.5%.		 	      

	      Bats are found all around the world and there are hundreds of different species of bat, living in caves and forests, particularly in the Southern Hemisphere. The bumblebee bat found in the jungles of Thailand, is the smallest mammal in the world and weighs less than a penny!  

Bats hunt at night using their exceptional sight to pick out their prey, generally insects, frogs and small rodents. The size of bat varies with the species, but some bats can have a wingspan of over 2 meters, like the Indonesian giant flying fox! Smaller bat species can be as little as only 2 cm.  

The Niah Caves in the Malaysian state of Sarawak, on the tropical island of Borneo, is particularly famous for the sightings of thousands of bats. Oddly enough the enormous quantities of the bat's dung (known as guano), is one of the things that draws so many people towards bats!  

Some species of bat are known to fly at extreme heights, sometimes up to 2 miles above the ground! The bats senses are so fine tuned that it is thought that some bats can hear footsteps 6 miles away.  

Bats have a slight sixth sense known as echolocation. This means that the bat creates a series of supersonic sounds, which the bat then uses to locate prey by the sounds that are reflected back to them.  

Unlike most species of animal, bats are found in any environment around the world excluding the polar regions. Despite what myths you may have heard, only three species of bat feed on animal blood and they all live in the deep jungles of South America, not Transylvania.		 	      

	      Bottlenose Dolphins are the most common and well-known type of dolphin. Bottlenose dolphins are found inhabiting warm seas worldwide.  

Bottlenose dolphins are grey in colour and grow between 2 and 4 meters long. These dolphins typically stay in groups from 15 to 2,000 in number, meaning that bottlenose dolphins can often be found in large groups.  

Dolphins are thought to be one of the more intelligent animals of the mammal world, along with bigger primates and humans. Dolphins are thought to communicate to other dolphins through a series of clicking sounds.  

Bottlenose dolphins generally have a good relationship with humans and due to their intelligence, bottlenose dolphins have been trained by military forces for tasks such as locating sea mines or detecting and marking enemy divers. In some areas the bottlenose dolphins have been known to help the local fishermen by driving fish towards the fishermen and then eating the fish that escape the fishermens nets. Some interactions with humans however are harmful to the dolphins as people hunt bottlenose dolphins for food, and dolphins are often killed by accident when there is mass tuna fishing.  

Bottlenose dolphins are generally known to have a calm and playful temperament, particularly around humans. As individuals, bottlenose dolphins are not aggressive by nature but if they feel threatened, bottlenose dolphins will use their immense pod size to their advantage which will often intimidate unwanted intruders. 

		 	      

	       Beagles are excellent with children and this is one of the reasons they have become popular family pets, but they are pack animals, and can be prone to separation anxiety.  

 Not all Beagles will howl, but most will bark when confronted with strange situations, and some will bay (also referred to as speaking, giving tongue, or opening) when they catch the scent of potential quarry.  

 They also generally get along well with other dogs. They are not demanding with regard to exercise, their inbred stamina means they do not easily tire when exercised, but they also do not need to be worked to exhaustion before they will rest, though regular exercise helps ward off the weight gain to which the breed is prone.		 	      

	      The Arctic hare is found in the northern regions of the Arctic Circle, predominantly in Northern America, Europe, Greenland and the North Pole.  

The Arctic hare has thick, white fur which allows it to continue inhabiting the Arctic regions successfully, in warmth and camouflage. The Arctic hare eats shoots, buds and berries found amongst the snow.  

The Arctic hare is a vital component in the Arctic circle food chain, being one of the few smaller mammals able to thrive in such a harsh environment. The Arctic hare is therefore common prey for bigger animals of the Arctic tundra, such as Arctic wolves, foxes and polar bears.  

The Arctic hare is always white in the far north where there is snow all year round. In parts of the Arctic circle that have seasons, the Arctic hare will go from white to a blue-grey colour in the summer but is known to keep its white tail all year.  

The Arctic hare lives in groups of around 200 Arctic hare individuals. These large groups of Arctic hare will often work together to achieve what is needed for their survival as the Arctic hares huddle together to conserve heat and to keep them warm.   

The Arctic hare has long claws which helps the Arctic hare when digging through icy and snowy conditions when the Arctic hare is searching for food or if the Arctic hare is digging a den.  

The Arctic hare can achieve very fast speeds when the Arctic hare feels threatened. If the Arctic hare senses danger, the Arctic hare will stand on its hind legs and survey the area. If the Arctic hare feels threatened, the Arctic hare is capable of taking off at very fast speeds as the Arctic hare moves by hopping off its back legs in a similar way to a kangaroo. 
		 	      

	      Border Collies are an intelligent, biddable breed with an instinctive desire to work closely and intensely with a human handler. They are very well behaved and can be very excitable dogs.  

Although the primary role of the Border Collie is that of the working stock dog, dogs of this breed are becoming increasingly popular as pets. True to their working heritage, Border Collies make very demanding, energetic pets that are better off in households that can provide them with plenty of exercise and a job to do.  

Border Collies are now also being used in showing, especially agility, where their speed and agility comes to good use. However, in an appropriate home, with a dedicated, active owner, a Border Collie can be an excellent companion. Participating in dog sports is popular with Border Collie owners.  

The Border Collies range of skills and high intelligence also make it an excellent detection dog which is commonly used by police, customs and other government agencies.		 	      

	      The basking shark is the second largest species of shark (and fish) in the world behind the enormous whale shark. Basking sharks are also commonly known as the sunfish, the elephant shark and the big mouth shark   

The basking shark is found inhabiting temperate coastal waters around the world, with the exception of the Indian Ocean. The basking shark is one of only three plankton-feeding shark species and is the largest fish in British waters.  

Basking sharks are most well known for their enormous mouths which balloon out in order to take in as much water into it as possible, and are able to process over 1,500 gallons at a time. As filter-feeders, the basking shark's mouth contains hundreds of tiny teeth which are used to filter food particles out of the water.  

Basking sharks are generally solitary animals found hunting alone, although basking sharks are also commonly seen in schools of up to 100 basking shark individuals usually during seasonal migrations. Basking sharks are also known to spend most of their time closer to the surface of the water where they can be easily spotted as they munch their way through the ocean.  

As with other large fish and shark species, the basking shark is a carnivorous animal meaning that it only gets it's nutrients by eating other animals. Plankton is the primary source of food for the basking shark along with other small organisms such as fish, squid and crustaceans.  

As the second largest shark species in the world, the basking shark has few natural predators. Apart from hunting by humans, the great white shark and the killer whale are the only real threat to the basking shark, mainly due to the fact that basking sharks are slow and generally sluggish swimmers.  

Basking sharks reach sexual maturity (can begin breeding) when they are about three years old. Basking sharks are known to mate during the warmer summer months, and their pups (the largest of all shark pups) are born live after up to 3 years of development. Basking shark pups are known to become independent immediately, swimming away from their mother just after birth.  

Due to over hunting and rising levels of pollution, the world's basking shark populations have severely declined meaning that today, the basking shark is considered to be an animal that is under threat from extinction.		 	      

	       There are three main species of black widow spider, all of which have very similar characteristics and inhabit areas in Northern America and parts of Mexico. Until very recently all three species of black widow spider were classified as one but recent research shows that as the species inhabit different areas, the three species of black widow spider have adapted to their environment in different ways.  

The Northern black widow spider is primarily found in the north east of the USA and parts of south east Canada, although the range of the northern black widow spider overlaps with that of the western black widow spider a great deal.  

The Western black widow spider inhabits areas of the western USA, Canada and parts of Mexico, although these western black widow spiders are often confused for the False black widow spider in Canada.  

The Southern black widow spider is found throughout the states in south east America from Florida right up to New York, and are also found more west towards Texas and Arizona where the black widow spider is said to run rampant.  

The black widow spider typically preys on a variety of insects, but occasionally they do feed upon woodlice and other arachnids. The black widow spider waits until prey has been trapped in its web before they quickly run out of their den, wrap it up and bite it. The venom from the bite of the black widow spider takes about ten minutes to take effect so the prey is held tightly by the spider. When the prey of the black widow spider has stopped moving, digestive enzymes are released into the wound where the black widow spider originally bit it. The black widow spider then carries its prey back to its retreat before feeding.  

The black widow spider, although small, has extremely dangerous venom that is said to be more potent than the venom of a cobra. It is rare for a healthy human adult to be injected with a fatal dose of the venom from a black widow spider, and generally bites will result in a large swelling around the bite and will cause the human to experience nausea, muscle aches and breathing difficulties.  

The greatest amount of human deaths by spider have been caused by the black widow spider, mainly due to the enormous geographical range that is inhabited by the black widow. These instances have dramatically increased with the development of antivenin and more effective plumbing in households.		 	      

	      The Asian palm civet is a smaller species of civet found throughout the jungles of Asia, and easily recognisable by its dark, coarse hair and large eyes. The Asian palm civet is also known as the common palm civet and the Toddy Cat is areas where the Asian palm civet is natively found.  

The Asian palm civet is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and rainforests throughout much of Asia. The main populations of the Asian palm civet however are found in southern India, Sri Lanka, South-east Asia and southern China. Unfortunately, Asian palm civets have been drastically affected by increasing deforestation (and therefore habitat loss) in their native regions.  

The Asian palm civet is widely spread and fairly commonly found throughout much of  Asia and despite their cat-like appearance and behaviours, Asian palm civets are not felines at all but are in fact more closely related to other small carnivores including weasels and mongooses. Unlike other civet species the tail of the Asian palm civet does not have rings, but the face of this species is banded like that of a raccoon.  

The Asian palm civet is solitary animal that only comes out under the cover of night to hunt and catch food. These nocturnal animals are primarily ground-dwelling and highly terrestrial as they mark their ranges by dragging their anal glands along the ground. Despite being predominately ground-dwelling though the Asian palm civet is known to climb up into the trees either in search of food or to hide from approaching predators.  

The Asian palm civet is a carnivorous animal, and like other species of civet, it survives on a meat-based diet, supplemented by the odd plant or fruit. Small animals such as rodents, lizards, snakes and frogs make up the majority of the Asian palm civet's diet, along with insects and other small creatures scuttling through the under-growth. Asian palm civets are also known to eat the fruits and flowers of palms, mangos and coffee in their natural habitats.  

Despite being a secretive yet relatively ferocious predatory animal, the Asian palm civet is actually preyed upon by a number of predators within their natural environment. Large predatory cats are the most common predators of the Asian palm civet including tigers and leopards along with reptiles such as large snakes and crocodiles.  

The female Asian palm civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The babies are weaned by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves. Asian palm civets can live for up to 20 years, although most rarely get to be this old.  

Today, the Asian palm civet is under threat from deforestation and therefore drastic loss of much of its natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in the area is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations.
		 	      

	      The bactrian camel is better known as being the type of camel with two humps. There are only two surviving species of camel remaining, the single humped camels from the Middle East and the bactrian (double humped) camel from Northern Asia.  

There are thought to be more than a million bactrian camels domesticated worldwide in not just Asia, but also parts of Africa and the Middle East. Camels have been domesticated for around 2,000 years for both pulling/carrying heavy loads but also for transporting both humans and merchandise.  

Like the single humped camel, the bactrian camel is able to survive on its own water reserves for long periods of time meaning they can cross enormous desert plains and mountain ranges without the need to stop so often.  

Today the bactrian camel is considered to be a critically endangered species with less than 1,000 bactrian camels thought to living in the wild in parts of China and Mongolia.   

The bactrian camels humps work in the same way to the Arabian camels humps, with the bactrian camels humps used for storing fat which can be converted to water and energy when the bactrian camel is unable to find food and water. The bactrian camels humps give the bactrian camels their legendary ability to endure long periods of travel without water, even in harsh desert conditions. As the fat in the bactrian camels humps gets used up, the bactrian camels humps become floppy and flabby.  

The bactrian camel is one of the most adaptive animals in the world with the bactrian camel being able to withstand temperatures from 40 degrees Centigrade in the summer to -30 degrees Centigrade in the winter.   
Bactrian camels have developed special adaptations to allow the bactrian camel to survive in such a brutal environment. The bactrian camel has a thick, shaggy coat that protects the bactrian camel from the cold in the winter and the bactrian camels coat falls away as seasons change and temperatures rise to allow the bactrian camel to keep cool in the summer.		 	      

	      In order for us to understand how all living organisms are related, they are arranged into different groups. The more features that a group of animals share, the more specific the group is. Animals are given scientific names so that people all around the world can communicate about animals, no matter what language they speak (these names are traditionally Latin words).  Animals belong to a number of different groups, starting with the animal kingdom.  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Example 1 - Tiger
Kingdom: Animalia (Animal)
Phylum: Chordata (Vertebrate)
Class: Mammalia (Mammal)
Order: Carnivora (Carnivore)
Family: Felidae (Cat)
Genus: Panthera
Species: Panthera tigris (Tiger)
  
Example 2 - Orang-utan
Kingdom: Animalia (Animal)
Phylum: Chordata (Vertebrate)
Class: Mammalia (Mammal)
Order: Primates
Family: Hominidae (Great Apes)
Genus: Pongo 
Species: Pongo pygmaeus (Orang-Utan)
		 	      

	      A Border Terrier is a small, rough-coated breed of dog of the terrier group. Originally bred as fox and vermin hunters, Border Terriers share ancestry with other terriers such as the Bedlington Terrier.  

 Borders will adapt to the activity levels of their owners. They do not demand exercise, but do love it when they get it. With sufficient length of leg to achieve reasonable speed, a Border will hike, bike, and run with its owner but just as happily while away the day lying in the sun.   

 A Border Terrier does not mind being left alone but as it is intelligent and loves company, it is not suited to a household where people are away all day, every day (four hours is enough for a dog of its size). They are also known to be good jumping dogs.  

Border Terriers have a broad skull and short, strong muzzle with a scissors bite. The V-shaped ears are on the sides of the head and fall towards the cheeks. Whiskers are few and short. The tail is naturally moderately short, thick at the base and tapering.  		 	      

	      The axolotl is a medium-sized amphibian that is only found in one complex of lakes that are close to Mexico City in south-central Mexico. The axolotl is today kept as a popular freshwater aquarium pet all around the world.  

The axolotl is most closely related to the tiger salamander which inhabits the waters in a similar region of Mexico. However, axolotls can be easily distinguished from salamanders as the axolotl retains it\'s tadpole-like appearance for it\'s whole life, therefore axolotls and young tiger salamanders are easily confused.  

The axolotl has a flat-shaped broad head that is much wider than the body of the axolotl. The axolotl also has feathery gills which protrude from either side of the head of the axolotl, allowing the axolotl to breath under water. As with newts and salamanders, axolotls are able to regenerate limbs that become damaged or detached meaning that axolotls have been extensively used in scientific experiments around the world.  

The axolotl is most commonly found in albino form as they spend a great deal of their lives hiding under rocks and in crevices on the bottom of the lake. Although axolotls are generally white or pink in colour, black, grey and brown coloured axolotls can also be found.   

The axolotl is a carnivorous animal meaning that the axolotl has a purely meat-based diet. The axolotl eats worms and insect larvae that develop under the surface of the water along with molluscs, crustaceans and some small species of fish.  

Due to the bottom-dwelling lifestyle of the axolotl, it has surprisingly few natural predators despite it\'s relatively small size. Birds and large fish are the most common predators of the axolotl along with humans who catch the axolotl to keep as pets in artificial environments.  

The axolotl can live for up to 25 years although the average axolotl rarely gets much older than the age of 15. Female axolotls can lay anywhere from 100 to 1,000 eggs which are coated with a sticky substance that helps them to stick to plants and rocks in the water to keep them safe. After about a month of development, tiny axolotl babies emerge into the open water.  

Today, the axolotl is considered to be a critically endangered species meaning that there are very few axolotl individuals left in the wild. Increasing levels of pollution is the most destructive factor in the survival to the axolotl with the ever-growing size of nearby Mexico City.
		 	      

	       The Basset Hound is often considered a friendly breed. For this reason they are an excellent pet for children. Bassets forget the training when a reward is not present. Bassets should be on a leash when out on walks.  

Bassets might howl or bark when they want something or to suggest that they think something is wrong (like a storm is coming). They also use a low, murmuring whine to get attention, which sounds to many owners as though their Bassets are talking. This whine is also used by the hound to beg (for food or treats) and varies in volume depending on the nature of the individual hound and length of time it has been begging.  

Because of the extremely long ears of Bassets they are prone to ear disease. If their ears are allowed to dangle on the ground or in food on a daily basis they are capable of developing chronic and potentially fatal ear diseases.  

In addition to ear problems, basset hounds may also have eye issues. Because of their droopy eyes, the area under the eyeball will collect dirt and become clogged with a mucus. It is best to wipe their eyes every day with a damp cloth. This helps to lessen the build up and eye irritation.  

Basset Hounds can be on the lazy side and can become overweight on their own if allowed to. They need plenty of exercise and a good diet.		 	      

	       The Australian Terrier is spirited, alert, courageous, and self-confident, with the natural aggressiveness of a ratter and hedge hunter, as a companion, friendly and affectionate.  

 Aussies are very intelligent. They are happiest when with their families, and therefore they should not be left outside for long periods of time. They are natural watchdogs and will sound the alarm if a strange animal or person approaches.   

As with other terriers, they can be dog-aggressive and somewhat bossy, and care must be taken when living in a multi-pet household. In general, adult male terriers do not get along well with other adult male dogs.		 	      

	      The Australian Mist (or spotted Australian mist) was bred in Australia in the 1700s to produce a short-haired cat with a spotted coat.  

The Australian Mist is thought to be  a mix-bred cat with mainly Burmese and Abyssinian cat blood-lines. Today the spotted part of the Australian mists name has been dropped, as the cats today often have more of a mottled than spotted coat.  

The Australian Mist is mainly bred in Australia, however, more breeders of the Australian Mist are starting to appear in the United Kingdom and North America.  

The Australian mist is known to have an excellent temperament and adores human companionship. The Australian mist is known to be trustworthy, gentle and extremely affectionate to both humans and other household animals and the Australian mist is even known to be friendly towards strangers.  

The Australian mist is known to be around the same size and shape of the Burmese cat and has even evolved with some of the Burmese cat's playful and curious traits.		 	      

	      Bull sharks are mainly found in the warmer and shallower coastal waters of the southern hemisphere. The bull shark is one of the most common species of shark found worldwide.  

The bull shark is able to inhabit both salt and freshwater sources just as happily, with one bull shark known to have swum 4,000 km up the Amazon River in South America, finally ending up in the mountainous Peru.  

The bull shark is well known for its unpredictable and aggressive temperament and is thought to be one of the most dangerous sharks towards humans. This is probably because the bull inhabits coastal waters and rivers and is therefore more likely to come into contact with swimmers and water sports enthusiasts.  

The bull shark is an effective and dominant predator in its environment and so has no real natural predator itself. Bull sharks are occasionally hunted by the bigger shark species such as the tiger shark and the infamous great white shark.  		 	      

	      Brown Bears are found in many parts of North America and Eurasia, where the bears inhabit wooded and mountainous areas. The brown bear is also the national animal for a number of states in  North America, Europe and Asia.  

Brown bears tend to feed on vegetation, fish and small land mammals, but the bears will only occasionally hunt bigger mammals like deer. Brown bears dont seem to be a great threat towards humans, although the mother brown bears will protect their young bear cubs.  

Brown bears generally grow to about  2 - 3m tall, looking enormous when the bear stands on its hind legs. Brown bears have sadly been the target of taxidermists over the years resulting in the brown bear population declining. Today there is more in the way of Animal Rights meaning that the brown bear population can grow once again.   

The brown bear is one of the largest species of bear with only the grizzly bear and the polar bear getting to bigger sizes. Both the grizzly bear and the polar bear however, are distant sub-species of the brown bear that have today adapted to living in a different environment.  

The brown bear is an extremely dominant predator in its environment, with only threats from human hunters posing any real dominance over the brown bears predatory rights. The brown bear has an enormous muscle between the brown bears shoulder blades that makes the brown bear stand out above other bear species.  

The enormous shoulder muscle that the brown bear has means that the brown bear has immensely strong forearms and allows the bear to break animal bones with one simple swipe. The brown bear has massive paws with claws that can grow longer than 15cm in length.  

There are thought to be around 200,000 brown bear individuals left in the wild over half of which are found in Russia. Around 95% of the brown bear population found in the USA is in the northernmost state of Alaska. Most of the brown bears that inhabit regions of Canada are found in the west of the country in the Rocky Mountain range.   

 Brown Bear Foot Facts 

The brown bear has four large paws and each of the paws of the brown bear has five toes that result in long claws.
The two front paws of the brown bear have toes that have longer claws than on the back paws, as the brown bear uses its front paws for digging.
The two back paws of the brown bear are larger than the two front paws as the brown bear often stands on its hind legs to either survey their surroundings or to get food out of higher places.
The brown bear uses its front paws with their enormous claws to rip open logs that have bugs inside so that it can eat them.
The brown bear uses its specially structured paws and legs in order to help it run fast, climb trees and swim well.

  
 Brown Bear Teeth Facts 

Brown bears do not normally bite their prey but instead grind and crunch with their enormous teeth to get their meal into them.
The brown bear has approximately 42 teeth including large predatory teeth that the brown bear uses to shred meat and skin.
The brown bear uses both its large, strong paws and its sharp teeth to catch and kill its prey and will either bite the neck of the animal or swipe it with its immense forearms.
The molar teeth of the brown bear increase in size as they go further in the mouth of the brown bear and the brown bear predominantly uses its largest molar to grind up tough food.
The size of the teeth of the brown bear are dependant on the size of the bear itself, so bigger bears will have bigger teeth than smaller bears.

		 	      

	       Boxers are a bright, energetic and playful breed and tend to be very good with children. They are active dogs and require adequate exercise to prevent boredom-associated behaviors such as chewing or digging.  

 Boxers have earned a slight reputation of being headstrong, which can be related to inappropriate obedience training. Owing to their intelligence and working breed characteristics, training based on corrections often has limited usefulness.  

 Boxers, like other animals, respond much better to positive reinforcement techniques such as clicker training, which affords the dog an opportunity to think independently and to problem-solve.   

Boxers were originally a docked and cropped breed, and this tradition is still maintained in some countries. However, due to pressure from veterinary associations, animal rights groups and the general public, both cropping of the ears and docking of the tail have been prohibited in many countries around the world.		 	      

	       The budgerigar is a small colourful bird native to Australia. The budgerigar is thought to be a sub-species of parrot, making the budgerigar one of the smallest parrot species in the world.  

The budgerigar is often called a parakeet or a budgie and the budgie is one of the most popular birds to keep as pets, both in outside aviaries and in cages in homes. Budgerigars are thought to be popular pets due to their small size and brightly coloured feathers.  

The budgerigar is a very sociable bird and budgies can been seen gathering in large flocks in trees and scrub land in the Australian wilderness. Pet budgerigars should always be kept at least with one other budgerigar to prevent them from getting lonely. The wild budgerigar tends to feed on grass seeds and occasional insects.    

Budgies are known to be very easy animals to sex. Male budgies and female budgies can be identified by the colour of their nose. The male budgerigar has a blue nose while the female budgie's nose is brown in colour.  

Budgerigars are known to be very hardy little creatures and if a budgie becomes ill in the wild, the budgie will try to conceal it as long as possible so as not to appear weak and vulnerable to potential predators. The main predators of the wild budgerigar are snakes and birds of prey such as hawks. Wild budgerigars have also been known to be hunted by local natives mainly for their brightly coloured feathers which are then used in tribal costumes.  

The average lifespan of a wild budgerigar is thought to be around 5 years but budgerigars have been known to live much longer in captivity, some get to nearly 20 years old! The average lifespan of a pet budgie is between 8 and 10 years.  

Budgerigars are one of the few bird species that do not build nests and female budgerigars will therefore find a hole in a tree in which to lay their eggs. The female budgerigar lays around 5 or 6 eggs, that hatch in around 3 weeks. The budgie chicks are looked after by their mother and reach full adulthood when they are roughly 9 months old.  

The budgerigar is a very vocal animal and the song of the budgie is also quite loud. Budgerigars use their voices to communicate with one another as they are very sociable animals. 		 	      

	      The booby is a large species of sea-bird closely related to the gannet. Boobies spend their lives at sea hunting fish and are found on the east coast of Central and South America, and across the tropical islands of the South Pacific as far west as the Galapagos islands. The booby is the most commonly found sea-bird on the Galapagos islands.  

There are six different species of booby found nesting on the tropical and subtropical islands and continental coasts across the south eastern Pacific Ocean, although fossil evidence suggests that there were numerous species of booby that are now extinct and are believed to inhabited regions as far east as Europe.  

The different species of booby are all very similar in size and appearance but each species of booby appears to have it's own uniquely distinguishable features. The different species of booby are the blue-footed booby, the red-footed booby, the brown booby, the Peruvian booby, the masked booby and the Nazca booby.  

The blue-footed booby is the most well known species of booby and is most commonly found on the Galapagos islands and Ecuador. The blue-footed booby is the second largest of the booby species and is identifiable by it's bright blue feet. The female blue-footed booby is generally slightly larger than the male blue-footed booby and the female blue-footed booby also has more brightly coloured feet than the male blue-footed booby, as the male's feet are paler. The young blue-footed booby also has pale coloured feet which (in females particularly) becomes brighter as the booby gets older.  

The red-footed booby is slightly smaller than the blue-footed booby but the red-footed booby is known to have a wider range from the Galapagos islands to the Caribbean. As the name suggests, the re-footed booby has bright, red feet that are a pinkish colour when the re-footed booby is young. Although the re-footed booby is known to be an agile flyer, the red-footed booby can be clumsy when taking off and landing. The red-footed booby can dive through the sky to the surface of the water to catch fish at speeds of up to 60 mph.  

The brown booby is around half the size of the blue-footed booby and is found in the Caribbean Sea and in the Gulf Of Mexico. The brown booby has a black head and back and a white belly, short wings and a long tail. The brown booby breeds in a large colony on coastal islands and is known to spend the winter at sea, covering a larger area. As with other species of booby, the brown booby is incredible at diving.  

The Peruvian booby is native to Peru and parts of Chilli and is not as elaborate in appearance of the other booby species. The Peruvian booby is the second most common sea-bird found in Peru and is also the second biggest sea-bird that produces guano in the country. Guano is the excrement which is produces by sea-birds, bats and seals, which has high levels of phosphorus and nitrogen and so is used to make fertilizer and gunpowder.  

The masked booby is distinguishable by the black colour around it's eyes. The masked booby has an enormous range that stretches from the Caribbean islands right across to Australia. The masked booby is the largest species of booby in the world and can grow to nearly a metre in height. The masked booby primarily feeds on flying fish and squid.  

The Nazca booby is found on islands in the eastern Pacific Ocean and is one of the most favourable birds on the Galapagos islands for eco-tourists to spot. The Nazca booby has a more rounded head than the other species of booby and is believed to be most closely related to the masked booby. The Nazca booby has a white body and a beak that is yellow or orange in colour.  

The booby is rarely found in regions where it cannot nest apart from those species of booby that purposefully spend the winter at sea (like the brown booby). Typically, the booby will have the same mating partner for a few years and the booby has been known to lay it's eggs all year round, although this is quite dependent on the area which the booby inhabits. The booby lays between 1 and 3 eggs (usually 2), and the booby chicks hatch after an incubation period of 4 to 5 weeks.  

Due to it's large size and the areas in which it inhabits. the booby has few natural predators. The main predators of the booby are owls and large birds of prey that steal the booby chicks, but the adult booby is far to big for another bird to eat. The human is the main predator of the enormous adult booby, and occasionally the odd shark.		 	      

	       The Aussie breed is an energetic dog that requires exercise and mental stimulation to be happy and to avoid becoming destructive.  They need a minimum of 20 min hard running twice per day.  Aussies love  working, whether it is herding livestock, performing tricks, competing in dog agility, or any other canine sport. They do exceptionally well in frisbee catching competition, and they love to retrieve items from water.  

Aussies want to accompany their favorite humans and see and do whatever you are doing.  After sufficient exercise they enjoy being couch potatoes. It is usually a sweet and affectionate dog which is faithful to its owners and great with children if raised with them. They typcially are friendly with the owner's friends and family that they see often but protective when strangers are around. Socialization from puppyhood is necessary to get the very best from them.  

 Most Australian Shepherds make wonderful family dogs, provided there is a human pack leader to guide them.   They generally get along with other dogs and are not quarrelsome.		 	      

	      Beavers are most well known for their distinctive home-building that can be seen in rivers and streams. The beavers dam is built from twigs, sticks, leaves and mud and are surprisingly strong. Here the beavers can catch their food and swim in the water.  

Beavers are nocturnal animals existing in the forests of Europe and North America (the Canadian beaver is the most common beaver). Beavers use their large, flat shaped tails, to help with dam building and it also allows the beavers to swim at speeds of up to 30 knots per hour.  

The beaver's significance is acknowledged in Canada by the fact that there is a Canadian Beaver on one of their coins.  

The beaver colonies create one or more dams in the beaver colonies' habitat to provide still, deep water to protect the beavers against predators. The beavers also use the deep water created using beaver dams and to float food and building materials along the river.  

In 1988 the North American beaver population was 60-400 million. Recent studies have estimated there are now around 6-12 million beavers found in the wild. The decline in beaver populations is due to the beavers being hunted for their fur and for the beaver's glands that are used as medicine and perfume. The beaver is also hunted because the beavers harvesting of trees and the beavers flooding of waterways may interfere with other human land uses.  

Beavers are known for their danger signal which the beaver makes when the beaver is startled or frightened.  A swimming beaver will rapidly dive while forcefully slapping the water with its broad tail. This means that the beaver creates a loud slapping noise, which can be heard over large distances above and below water. This beaver warning noise serves as a warning to beavers in the area. Once a beaver has made this danger signal, nearby beavers dive and may not come back up for some time.  

Beavers are slow on land, but the beavers are good swimmers that can stay under water for as long as 15 minutes at a time. In the winter the beaver does not hibernate but instead stores sticks and logs underwater that the beaver can then feed on through the cold winter.
		 	      

	      The black rhinoceros (also known as the hook-lipped rhinoceros) is a large species of rhinoceros native to Africa. Despite it's name, the black rhinoceros is actually fairly light in colour with most black rhinoceros individuals having either white or grey skin.  

Historically, the black rhinoceros had a vast range across central and eastern Africa in countries including Kenya, Tanzania, Cameroon, South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and Angola. Although the black rhinoceros is still found in these countries today, their numbers are very few and far between.  

The black rhinoceros is one of the larger rhinoceros species with the horns of the black rhinoceros known to reach 1.5 meters in length. The black rhinoceros uses it's horns are used for defence, intimidation, digging up roots and breaking branches during feeding. The horns of the black rhinoceros are made from a substance called keratin and are therefore very strong. The horns of the black rhinoceros are used in ancient medicine and many black rhinos have been illegally poached for them.   

The black rhinoceros has relatively poor eyesight, relying more on hearing and smell to detect what is going on around them. The ears of the black rhinoceros possess a relatively wide rotational range to detect sounds and an excellent sense of smell to readily alert them to the presence of predators.  

The black rhinoceros is a herbivorous animal meaning that it sustains itself on a purely plant based diet. Black rhinos browse the densely vegetated savanna for leaves, flowers, buds, fruits, berries and roots which they dig up from the ground using their horns.  

Due to it's large size, the black rhino's only real predator in the wild are large wild cats such as lions that will prey on the black rhino calves and weak individuals. Humans are the biggest threat to the black rhinoceros as they have been hunted to the brink of extinction for their horns.  

The black rhinoceros is solitary animal and only comes together with other black rhinos to mate. The female black rhinoceros gives birth to a single calf after a gestation period that is over a year long. The black rhinoceros calf remains with it's mother until it is at least 2 years old and big enough to become independent.  

Today, the black rhinoceros is a critically endangered animal said to be on the brink of extinction in the wild. There are only a handful of black rhinoceros individuals left in the wild, but reports suggest that black rhinoceros population numbers are now beginning to increase due to continued conservation efforts.
		 	      

	        
  
  
  
  
  
 	      

	      The beetle is a small sized invertebrate that is known to be incredibly versatile and is found in numerous different shapes and sizes. Beetles are found in nearly every different habitat on Earth and are only absent from the freezing polar regions.   

The beetle has the largest number of sub-species out of all the insects, with 40% of all recognised insects being classed as beetles. There are more than 350,000 different species of noted beetle, however, scientists estimate the real number is between 4 million and 8 million beetle species.  

As with other species of insects, the body of the beetle is comprised of three sections all coated in the hard outer shell, which are the head of the beetle, the thorax of the beetle and the abdomen of the beetle. Beetles also have antennae which are used to understand the surroundings of the beetle and are made of about 10 different sections.  

Beetles are believed to play a vital role in whichever ecosystem they are inhabiting mainly as they consume the debris from plants and animals including fallen petals and animal dung. All animals that ingest decomposing material are working wonders for the soil as they are consuming a large proportion of the compounds that would otherwise be absorbed into the soil, such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen.  

The beetle is an omnivorous animals and feeds on whatever it can find but generally plants and fungi and the debris from both plants and animals. Some bigger species of beetle have been known to eat small birds and even small species of mammal. Other species of beetle feed of the dust from wood and therefore enjoy burrowing themselves into trees.  

Due to their small size and wide, diverse range, beetles are prey to numerous species of animal from other insects to reptiles, birds, fish and mammals. The exact predators of the beetle however are largely dependent on the size and species of the beetle and the area in which the beetle inhabits.  

Recently, the Asian long-horned beetle has been found in number of North American states with the beetle having quickly gained a name for itself as an agricultural pest. The Asian long-horned beetle is a type of bark boring beetle which means that they dig themselves into wood.		 	      

	      The bonobo is a large species of primate that is only found in the Democratic Republic Of The Congo in central Africa. The bonobo is also known as the pygmy chimpanzee and the dwarf chimpanzee as the bonobo is thought to be very closely related to the chimpanzee and the two species share very similar characteristics.  

The bonobo is thought to have evolved from the ancestors of the common chimpanzee millions of years ago when the Congo River was formed. Today, the bonobo lives south of the Congo river and chimpanzees live north of the river meaning that they have evolved as two separate species.  

Along with the chimpanzee, the bonobo is believed to be one of the closet living relatives of the human. The bonobo shares 97% of the same DNA that makes up humans and the bonobo displays very similar behaviour to humans as far as social interaction and reproduction are concerned. Along with a number of other primate species (including humans) the bonobo has opposable thumbs which allow it to grip onto food and trees.  

The bonobo is smaller than the chimpanzee with adult bonobos averaging around 70cm in height and weight roughly 40kg, The bonobo has black hair covering it's body that is parted on it's head, pink lips and long legs. Generally, the body of the bonobo is not as hairy as the body of their chimp cousins.  

The bonobo is an omnivorous animal mainly feeding on vegetation such as fruits, leaves, flowers, bark and seeds. The bonobo  also eats honey, eggs, insects and even small mammals and reptiles. The bonobo has also been known to turn to cannibalism (eats other bonobos) in captivity but it is unknown whether or not this happens in the wild.  

Due to it's large size and the ability of the bonobo to escape into trees, the bonobo has few natural predators in the African forests. The main predators of the bonobo are humans who hunt the bonobo for it's meat and the odd crocodile when the bonobo gets close to the water. It is thought that other large primates may prey on the bonobo in the wild but that will often be down to disagreements over territory that turn nasty.  

As with many other species of large primate, the bonobo spends a great deal of time on the ground looking for food and resting with the bonobo troop. Bonobos are also known to climb into the trees if they feel threatened or are search of culinary delicacies such as honey.  

Bonobos inhabit areas of the forest in troops which usually contain the alpha male bonobo, a number of females bonobos and their offspring. The bonobo troop feed together and warn off unwelcome animals along with social interacting through calls and grooming.  

Female bonobos breed roughly once every few of years and there has been not specific breeding season observed. After a gestation period of around 8 months, the female bonobo gives birth a single bonobo baby. The bonobo baby is nursed and cared for by the mother bonobo until it is between 3 and 6 years old. The male bonobo babies are known to be more dependent on their mothers and the female bonobo babies are more independent at a younger age. A female bonobo can expect have between 5 and 7 babies in her 40 years lifespan.  

Today, the bonobo is considered to be endangered animal with only 10,000 bonobo individuals thought to be left in the wild. The bonobo populations have declined dramatically due to hunting an habitat loss. The civil unrest in the region has also made the bonobo populations more vulnerable.		 	      

	      Bobcat Classification and Evolution
The Bobcat is a medium-sized wildcat that is found in a variety of habitats across the southern half of North America. They are widespread and adaptable predators that are closely related to the larger and more northerly dwelling Canadian Lynx with the biggest difference being that the Bobcat only has a small "bobbed" tail, from which it gets it's name. Measuring about double the size of a domestic cat, the Bobcat has the greatest range of all North American felines but their secretive nature means that they are seldom seen by people. There are currently twelve recognised sub-species of Bobcat which vary in their colouration and geographic range, with individuals found in mountainous forest being darker with more markings than their lighter-coloured cousins that are found in more arid, semi-desert regions.   
Bobcat Anatomy and Appearance
Due to the fact that the Bobcat belongs to the same family as the Lynx, they are similar in appearance but not at all the same. The Bobcat is smaller in size and has smaller feet and ear tufts than the Canadian Lynx, and often tends to be darker in colour. Bobcats have beige to brown or reddish fur that is mottled or spotted with the intensity of these markings depending on the individual and where it lives (those found in more open, arid areas tend to have fewer markings than those found amongst dense cover). The underside of the Bobcat is white so the darker spots are more distinctive and they also have a white tip to their short, black tail, which only grows to around 15cm in length . Like the larger Lynx, the Bobcat has ear tufts that are thought to heighten their hearing along with also having a ruff of longer fur around it's face.   
Bobcat Distribution and Habitat
The Bobcat is the most widely distributed of all North American felines and is found across North America from southern parts of Canada right down to southern Mexico. They are incredibly versatile animals that have adapted to living in a variety of different habitats throughout the three different countries. Although Bobcats are known to prefer rocky hillsides that are well-vegetated, they are found in numerous different habitats throughout their natural range including mountain woodlands, coniferous forest, swampland, deserts and even in suburban areas in some places. The exact appearance of the Bobcat depends on what kind of habitat it is found in as the differing coat colours allow the individual to remain as camouflaged as possible in it's surroundings. The historical range of the Bobcat once extended right across North America but the capture of them for their fur and loss of their natural habitat has led to the disappearance of them in some areas.  
Bobcat Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Bobcat is solitary and nocturnal animal that is most active in the darkness of night, tending to hunt most during dawn and dusk. During the day, Bobcats sleep and rest in dens in the form of a rock crevice or hollow tree with one individual having a number of dens within it's home range. Bobcats are highly territorial and mark their ranges with scents from their urine and faeces and distinctive claw marks on trees to alert others of their presence. Males patrol a large home range which often overlaps a number of smaller female territories but the two will not interact until the breeding season which begins in the winter. At other times of the year though, Bobcats tend to avoid one another to reduce the chances of them being injured in a fight.   
Bobcat Reproduction and Life Cycles
Bobcats can only be found together during the breeding season when both males and females can mate with multiple partners and after a gestation period that last for 8 - 10 weeks, the female Bobcat gives birth to a litter of up to 6 kittens in a safe and secluded den. Bobcat kittens are born blind and open their eyes after about 10 days, feeding on their mother's milk until they are old enough to begin consuming meat. Most births occur in the late winter or early spring with Bobcat kittens usually remaining with their mother until the next winter when they are around eight months old and have learnt how to hunt independently. Female Bobcats tend to have a single litter every year and after mating, the male Bobcat plays no part in rearing the young.   
Bobcat Diet and Prey
The Bobcat is a carnivorous feline meaning that it only hunts and eats other animals in order to gain the nutrients that it needs to survive. Bobcats mainly hunt small mammals like Rabbits, Hares and Mice along with Birds close to the ground and the occasional Lizard. During the harsher winter months they are also known to hunt larger animals including Deer and will also feed on fresh carrion. The Bobcat is an incredibly elusive predator that hunts it's prey by stalking it silently in the dark before pouncing on it with incredible force, and despite their size, Bobcats are known to be able to kill animals that are much larger than themselves. In areas where growing Human settlements have encroached on the Bobcat's natural habitat, they have also been known to take occasional livestock such as poultry and sheep.  
Bobcat Predators and Threats
The Bobcat is a fierce and dominant predator in it's natural habitat with adult Bobcats therefore being threatened by few animals, the biggest concern to them being Cougars and Wolves. The small and vulnerable Bobcat kittens however, are preyed upon by a number of predators including Coyotes and Owls that are able to hunt the kittens whilst there mother has gone off to hunt. The biggest threat to Bobcat populations throughout North America is people that have previously hunted the Bobcat to near extinction in some areas for their soft fur. In areas where Bobcats are now forced to share their natural ranges with growing numbers of people, they have also been hunted by farmers who fear for their livestock. Despite the fact that they are very adaptable animals, Bobcats are also been threatened by habitat loss with populations being pushed into smaller and more isolated regions of their once vast natural range.  
Bobcat Interesting Facts and Features
The Bobcat is also known as the Red Lynx due to the fact that the two are very similar in appearance but the Bobcat tends to be much darker and richer in colour than their northern relatives. They are incredibly secretive yet powerful animals that are able to pounce on their prey from up to three meters away before delivering a fatal bite, allowing Bobcats to also hunt animals that may be up to double their own size. Although Bobcats are generally quiet and not greatly vocal animals, the fierce growls and snarls that they make when they are hiding often leads people to believe that there is a Mountain Lion in the area.  
Bobcat Relationship with Humans
Bobcats have historically dominated a wide variety of habitats across North America with the Bobcat known to people all over the continent, having roots in Native American folklore and in tales of the first European settlers in the Northern USA and Canada. However, the beauty, softness and density of the Bobcat's fur lead to an increased value in their pelts and therefore the hunting of them from the early to mid 1900s that completely decimated populations particularly in the mid-western and eastern USA. Although they are now internationally protected, the hunting of Bobcats still continues in some areas, particularly those with the densest populations. They are also seen as pests by farmers that hunt Bobcats to protect their livestock, particularly in Mexico where it has led to the Mexican Bobcat being listed as an Endangered species.  
Bobcat Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Bobcat is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in it's native environment in the near future. Since the international protection of the Bobcat in the 1970s put an end to the extensive trading of their fur, populations have been able to recover and are stable throughout much of their natural range. However, in areas where there is increasing levels of Human activity, numbers are still declining due to both hunting and habitat loss. There are estimated to be between 800,000 and 1,200,000 Bobcat individuals left in the wild of North America.
		 	      

	       The Brazilian Terrier, commonly called Fox Paulistinha, is a breed of dog developed in Brazil. It is one of several terriers probably descended from the combining of the Fox Terrier with other small breeds.  

The appearance of the Brazilian Terrier is typical of dogs descended from fox terrier types. The short coat is tri-colour. The skull is flat and wedge-shaped, with folded ears. The tail may be docked or natural.   

Brazilian Terriers are alert, intelligent and playful with stronger than average hunting instincts. They should not be left alone with small animals. They must be kept active and occupied, becoming destructive or restless if bored.		 	      

	      The Bombay cat is thought to have been bred from the playful Burmese cat, and a smaller short-haired cat in the 1950s. The Bombay cat was initially bred in order to produce a domestic cat that looked that a panther.  

There are two main types of Bombay cat today, the American Bombay cat and the British Bombay Cat, both species are generally black although some American Bombay cats are breed to have spots which slightly resemble those of a leopard.  

The Bombay cat is a very distinctive domestic cat breed as they generally have black fur and either green or orange eyes depending on the sub-species. Bombay cat also has a long, narrow body and small heads.  

The Bombay cat is thought to have a very similar personality to the Burmese cat, in that the Bombay cat is excitable and affectionate. This has meant that today, the Bombay cat is a very popular domestic cat breed.  

Like the Burmese, the Bombay cat is a highly intelligent animal and is extremely energetic. The cleverness and activeness of the Bombay cat, ensure that it is generally a successful hunter. 		 	      

	      The bison is also known as the American bison and the American buffalo, although the bison is only thought to be very distantly related to the buffalo and the water buffalo found in Africa and Asia respectively.  

The bison is one of the largest types of cow in the world with adult bison commonly growing to 2 meters tall or more. The bison typically have long shaggy hair if they inhabit colder regions and the bison in the warmer climates have shorter hair.  

The wild bison has been hunted by humans for meat, skins and trophy hunting. The bison has only a handful of predators in the wild mainly due to the sheer size of the bison. Wolves, bears and cougars are amongst those animals that hunt the bison in their natural habitat.  

The bison is considered to be the largest land mammal still in existence in North America, where the natural habitat of the bison ranged from Canada to Mexico. Due to loss of the bisons habitat and hunting, the bison are now only found in large herds in very remote areas and farmland.   

Before the settlers arrived in North America in the 1800s there were approximately 60 - 100 million bison inhabiting the area, the settlers hunted the bison population down to a mere 1,000 from which the species has still not fully recovered.		 	      

	      Bears are large dog like mammals found all around the world. There are eight different species of bear that are found in a wide range of habitats in both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres, mainly the Americas, Europe and Asia.  

Most bears are nocturnal, solitary animals only really congregating during the bears mating season. The mother bear will then raise her cubs until they too, are old enough to live on their own. Bears generally have an excellent sense of smell and are also fantastic at climbing trees, swimming and are able to run at speeds of up to 35 mph for short periods of time.  

All bears are generally classified as carnivores but most species of bear today have adapted various herbivorous traits. For example, the giant panda has a diet that primarily comprises of bamboo. Most species of bear tend to hunt fish over land animals, although its not uncommon for a bear to not eat fish at all.  

In Viking northern Europe, the locals firmly believed that by wearing a shirt made of bear skin, the wearer would adopt the powerful characteristics of the bear such as the bears strength and courage. Legend has it that the word berserk is said to originate from this belief from the way the affected men adopting these bear attributes behaved, but whether this is true or not is hard to tell.  

The Malaysian sun bear is the smallest of the existing bear species, with the average adult sun bear measuring around 1 meter tall. The polar bear is generally the biggest species of bear with the adults growing to over 3 meters tall. The grizzly bear found in North America is the only other species of bear where the adults can get to this size, but it is uncommon. 		 	      

	      The Borneo elephant is a sub-species of Asian elephant which includes the Indian elephant, the Sumatran elephant, the Sri-Lanka elephant and the Borneo elephant. The Borneo elephant is also known as the pygmy elephant as it is the smallest of the elephant sub-species.  

As its name suggests, the Borneo elephant is found exclusively on the island of Borneo in the Malaysian state of Sabah and parts of Indonesian Kalimantan. Much of the Borneo elephants natural habitat has been destroyed to make way for palm oil plantations and there are now thought to be less than 1,000 Borneo elephant individuals left in Sabah.  

The Borneo elephant has smaller ears than the African elephant and the Borneo elephant also has a more curved spine than the African elephant. Unlike the African elephants, the female Borneo elephants very rarely have tusks, and if the female Borneo elephant does have tusks, they are generally barely visible and can only be seen when the female Borneo elephant opens her mouth.  

The Borneo elephant follows strict migration routes that are determined by the monsoon season. The eldest elephant of the Borneo elephant herd is responsible for remembering the migration route of its Borneo elephant herd. This Borneo elephant migration generally takes place between the wet and dry seasons and problems arose when farms where built along the migratory routes of the Borneo elephant herds, as the Borneo elephants caused a great deal of destruction to the newly founded farmland.  

Borneo elephants are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that they need to survive. Borneo elephants eat a wide variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, shoots, barks, fruits, nuts and seeds. Borneo elephants often use their long trunk to assist them in gathering food.  

Due to their large size, Borneo elephants have very few predators within their natural environment. Besides human hunters, tigers are the primary predator of the Borneo elephant, although they tend to hunt the smaller Borneo elephant calves rather than the much larger and stronger adults.  

Female Borneo elephants are generally able to breed by the time they are 10 years old, and give birth to a single Borneo elephant calf after a 22 month gestation period. When the Borneo elephant calf is first born, it weighs about 100 kg, and is cared for not only by it's mother by also by other female Borneo elephants in the herd (known as aunties). The infant Borneo elephant remains with its mother until it is around 5 years old and gains its independence, with males often leaving the herd and female calves staying.  

Today, the Borneo elephant is considered to be an animal that is in immediate danger of becoming extinct due to the fact that Borneo elephant populations have been declining at a critical rate. Borneo elephants are thought to be suffering primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation and hunting for their ivory tusks by human poachers. 
		 	      

	       Despite their famous sourmug expression, bulldogs are generally docile, friendly and gregarious but occasionally willful. Breeders have worked to breed aggression out of the breed, and as such the dog is known to be of generally good temperament.  

 Bulldogs can be so attached to home and family that they will not venture out of the yard without a human companion. Due to their friendly nature bulldogs are known for getting along well with children, other dogs and pets.  

A bulldog is suitable for houses as well as apartments due to their size and susceptibility to the weather. They are easily trainable as compared with many other breeds.  

The bulldog is a breed with characteristically thick shoulders and a matching head. There are generally thick folds of skin on a bulldog's brow, followed by round, black, wide-set eyes, a short muzzle with characteristic folds above the nose, drooping lips, and pointed teeth.		 	      

	      The buffalo is also known as the African buffalo and the cape buffalo, as the buffalo is found in large herds across Africa but the buffalo is more prominent in South Africa.  

Although the buffalo and water buffalo (found in Asia) look very similar it not thought that the buffalo and the water buffalo are closely related. The African forest buffalo is a subspecies of the African buffalo but the forest buffalo is about half the size of the standard buffalo.  

The African buffalo is one of the most successful grazers in Africa. The buffalo inhabits swamps and floodplains as well as the grasslands and forests of the major mountains of Africa. Buffalo can be found from the highest mountains to sea level areas, and the buffalo tends to prefer habitat with dense cover such as reeds and thickets. Herd of buffalo have also been found in open woodland and grassland.  

Other than the human, the African buffalo has no real natural predators as the buffalo is able to easily defend itself using the buffalos sheer size and power. Lions, crocodiles, leopards and hyena are all amongst those animals that prey on the buffalo although they are usually only successful in catching the buffalo in large numbers.  

The buffalo has a very unpredictable nature which, along with the size of the buffalo, makes the buffalo a severe threat to humans. There are numerous buffalo attacks on humans every year and the buffalo is thought to be one of the most dangerous animals in Africa behind the hippo and the crocodile. Because of this the African buffalo has not been domesticated unlike the water buffalo in Asia.		 	      

	       The Bullmastiff is courageous, loyal, calm, and loving with those it knows. It has a very strong protective instinct and will defend its owners against anything it perceives as a threat. However, it does not normally attack to protect.  

 Instead, it knocks the intruder over with its massive size and pins them to the ground, or, will simply stand in front of the stranger or intruder and refuse to let them pass. Bullmastiffs become intensely attached to their families and do best when they can live inside with them.   

Their protective instinct combined with their great size and natural wariness of strangers means that early socialization is a must. The Bullmastiff may or may not get along well with other dogs. Occasionally, females in heat will also not get along with other females.  

 The Bullmastiff gets along well with children and is very loving towards them. Parental supervision must be maintained when they are with children; they may knock smaller children down accidentally because of their large size.		 	      

	      The burrowing frog is a large sized species of frog that is natively found in Australia. Burrowing frogs are most commonly found in their burrows in river banks and close to marshes, streams and lakes.  

There are six different species of burrowing frog in Australia which vary in size from around 6cm to 10cm long. Only one of the six species of burrowing frog is found in south-eastern Australia, as the other five burrowing frog species are all found in western Australia.  

The burrowing frog has a very distinctive appearance and is easily identified by its large, bulging eyes, short body and long legs and toes. Unlike many other species of frog, the toes of the burrowing frog are not webbed as webbing would make digging much more difficult.  

As with all amphibians, burrowing frogs are semi-aquatic and are always found close to large bodies of water. Burrowing frogs hide in the banks close to the water where they can remain unseen by predators and undetected from potential prey.  

The burrowing frog is a carnivorous animal that uses it long, sticky tongue in order to catch food. When the burrowing frog spots a meal, it remains very still watching it closely with its large eyes before shooting its tongue out of its mouth at remarkable speed to catch its prey before pulling its back in. Burrowing frogs primarily hunt invertebrates such as insects, spiders and worms.  

Due to their relatively small size, the burrowing frog has numerous natural predators within its natural environment. Foxes, cats, dogs, birds, snakes and lizards are among the most common predators of the burrowing frog.  

After mating, the female burrowing frog can lay up to 1,000 eggs in a foamy mass in her burrow in the river bank, where the eggs develop until they hatch. Burrowing frog tadpoles hatch after water has flooded the burrow, the aquatic tadpoles to leave the burrow into the water.		 	      

	       Canaan Dogs have a strong survival instinct. They are quick to react and wary of strangers, and will alert to any disturbances with prompt barking, thus making them excellent watchdogs.  

 Though defensive, they are not aggressive and are very good with children. They are intelligent and learn quickly, but may get bored with repetitive exercises or ignore commands if they find something of more interest.		 	      

	      Camel Classification and Evolution
The Camel (also known as the Dromedary Camel, the Arabian Camel and the One-Humped Camel) is a large hoofed animal that is most commonly found in the hot deserts of Northern Africa and the Middle East. Thought to have been first domesticated by native people more than 5,000 years ago, these hardy animals have proved vital to the survival of humans in these areas as they are not just used for transporting both people and goods, but also provide a good source of milk, meat and wool. The Camel is one the most unique mammals on the planet and has adapted perfectly to life in the desert where food and water can often be scarce, and the temperature changes rapidly from the scorching-hot days to the cooler nights. However, although they would have once been found freely roaming the Arabian deserts, they are today extinct from the wild but the domestic population is widespread and numerous.  
Camel Anatomy and Appearance
Camels have a number of adaptations to help them to survive the most successfully in such dry and arid climates starting with their cream to brown coloured, short but thick fur which not only protects their skin from the sun during the day, but also helps to keep them warm when the temperature plummets at night. Their long legs keep their body high above the hot ground and their two toes on each foot are able to spread widely apart to prevent them from sinking into the sand. The bottoms of their feet are also padded to help them when in rocky or stony regions. Camels have large eyes and nostrils which give them good sight and smell. They have a double layer of long eyelashes and can close their slit-like nostrils to protect them from dust storms. Camels are able to survive for long periods of time without either food or water as they store fat in their hump which can be used to give the Camel energy when resources are scarce.   
Camel Distribution and Habitat
Historically the Camel would have roamed throughout the deserts of Northern Africa, the Middle East and as far into Asia as western India where the surroundings can change from the soft, powdery sand dunes to more hostile and rocky regions. Today, Camels are no longer found in the wild but still exist as domestic animals in these areas and provide both transport and an important source of food for the local people. Their ability to go for so long without both food and water, along with being able to carry heavy loads has meant that they have allowed people to travel further across the desert. Today, millions of domestic Camels exist in the desert along with a feral population that can be found in the deserts of Central Australia.   
Camel Behaviour and Lifestyle
Camels inhabit these dry and arid regions in herds that can contain up to 40 individuals and are comprised of females with their young and are led by a single, dominant male. During the breeding season, dominant males protect their harem of females by biting, spitting and leaning on their rival males. Camels rest by lying down and do so by bending their front legs underneath them, followed by the back. They are also known to move in a different way to many mammals by moving both left legs then both the right to make them walk. In order to try and conserve vital moisture in such hostile conditions, Camels have a minimal number of sweat-glands (very few in relation to their large body size), which along with the fact that they will allow their body temperature to rise in the heat, means that they lose water much more slowly than other large mammals.   
Camel Reproduction and Life Cycles
Camels are able to breed by the time they are between three and four years old for females and five years old for males, when the dominant male of the herd has breeding rights with the females. Both female and male Camels come into heat during the breeding season which usually lasts between November and March. After a long gestation period that can last for up to thirteen months, the female gives birth to either a single calf or occasionally twins which can already weigh as much as 40kg at birth. Within eight hours the young calf is able to stand and is then nursed by it's mother in the protection of the herd until it is big and strong enough to become independent. Young Camels begin to eat grass when they are between two and three months old and are weaned at roughly four months of age.  
Camel Diet and Prey
Although the Camel is technically a herbivorous animal their diet is not strictly vegetarian as they are known to chew on bones and eat carrion to supplement their diet. Another adaptation for living in the desert is their split, leathery lip which helps the Camel to eat tough and thorny plants which other animals avoid. They are also known to consume plants that are high in salt which again means there is less competition from other animals for food. One of the most remarkable things about Camels is their ability to store the energy from their food and water as fat in their hump, which means they have a ready supply of energy when food and water are scarce. Camels can lose up to 40% of their body weight before needing to replenish themselves and once a water-hole or oasis is found, they can drink around 40 gallons of water in a very short time.  
Camel Predators and Threats
Although they no longer exist in the wild, the large size of the Camel means that it would have had limited predators. Lions and Leopards would have been their most common predators however, the fact that Camels inhabit hostile, arid regions where very few large, carnivorous mammals can be found means that they would not have been hunted as regularly as other hoofed herbivores. Although they were first domesticated by people more than 5,000 years ago they would have been hunted by them for their meat and hides for longer. Today, although no Camels exist in the true wild their domestic population is high and they are commonly found alongside people from Northern Africa to Western Asia.  
Camel Interesting Facts and Features
Camels are not only hardy, desert animals because they can survive without water for up to 10 months providing they find food, but their relatively slow-paced lifestyle means that they can also travel vast distances (sometimes more than 30km) in just one day, whilst carrying a load that could exceed 200kg. As with a number of other domesticated animals, there are now various different breeds of Camel that have resulted from cross-breeding Camels with Bactrian Camels to produce individuals that are either bigger and stronger to be used as working animals or are incredibly fast. Unlike any other mammal, Camels have unique oval-shaped red blood cells which allows the blood to keep flowing smoothly when the animal becomes dehydrated and the blood thickens.  
Camel Relationship with Humans
Camels have been used for thousands of years by people both for transporting goods across the desert and as a good source of milk and meat. Their woolly hair can also be used to make clothing along with their leathery hides. Like other domestic animals, there are now numerous breeds of Camel but not all have been bred for truly practical uses with faster and faster breeds appearing that are then used for Camel racing. Their placid nature though, has meant that they can live alongside people and other livestock without hardly any problems.  
Camel Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, although the wild Camel population is extinct they are Common as domestic animals throughout much of their natural range and further, with estimates ranging as high as 20 million individuals. In the 1800s, the first Camel was imported into Australia to be used to help people get between places in the vast desert. Since then more and more have followed which has to led there now being a strong feral population that is possibly as high as 1 million Camels roaming the deserts of Central Australia. 
		 	      

	      The caiman is a large aquatic reptile found in the swamps and tropical rivers that cover Central and South America. Although the caimans have much narrower bodies, they are most closely related to alligators and crocodiles.  

Caimans are found in a variety of habitats throughout Central and South America from marshes and swamps to mangrove rivers and lakes. As with other reptiles, caimans have scaly skin and live a fairly nocturnal existence.  

Caimans range in size from the dwarf caiman which measures just over a meter in length, to the black caiman which can to grow to be nearly 5 meters long. The black caiman is the largest caiman species in the world and is found in the slow-moving rivers and lakes that surround the Amazon basin.  

There are six different species of caiman found throughout the watery, jungle habitats of Central and Southern America. The average length for most of the other caiman species if about 2.5 meters long.  

The caiman is a carnivorous predators and, like the alligator and the crocodile, the caiman has a diet that consists of a great deal of fish. The caiman also hunts insects, birds and small mammals and reptiles.  

Due to the large size and ferocious nature of the caiman, it has few natural predators within its environment. Humans are the main predators of the caiman as they have been hunted for their meat and skin. Jaguars are the only other predator of the caiman.  

Female caimans build a large nest in which to lay their eggs, which can be more than 1.5 meters wide. Female caimans lay between 10 and 50 eggs which hatch within about 6 weeks. Once they have hatched, the mother caiman takes her young to a shallow pool of water where they can learn how to hunt and swim.		 	      

	      The bullfrog is one of the most widely distributed frogs across the North American continent. The bullfrog is a medium-sized frog that is best known for it's loud cow-like calls, hence it's name.  

Bullfrogs are found in a wide range of permanent freshwater habitats including ponds, swamps and lakes where the bullfrog tends to prefer to be closer to the banks rather than out in the open water. Bullfrogs also prefer to be in warmer climates rather than the cooler ones.  

Today bullfrogs are being more and more commonly kept as pets and are even eaten by locals in some of the more southern regions of North America. Bullfrogs have also been introduced to other countries throughout the world where they have generally had a devastating impact on the local ecosystems.   

Bullfrogs are carnivorous animals and bullfrogs have a diet that is meat-based. Bullfrogs are nocturnal hunters, hiding and resting during the day and actively hunting by night. Bullfrogs hunt a variety of insects and their larvae, eggs, spiders and even small fish. Some of the larger bullfrogs, today found in South Korea, have been even known to eat small snakes.  

Due to the relatively small size of the bullfrog and the fact that its calls can be heard for some distance, the bullfrog has numerous different predators within its natural environment. Aquatic animals including large fish and river turtles are the most common predators of the bullfrog along with a number of snake species.  

Bullfrog breeding occurs around late spring to early summer, when the male bullfrogs call out to the female bullfrogs attracting them into their territory. Once the bullfrogs have mated, the female bullfrog can lay around 20,000 eggs which float together on the surface of the water.  

The bullfrog eggs hatch in less than a week, and thousands of bullfrog tadpoles emerge into the surrounding water. The tadpoles begin to develop limbs and start to look like adult frogs. This whole process can take anywhere from 3 months to 3 years, depending of where the bullfrog lives.  

Bullfrogs are generally quite hardy animals and can get to be 10 years old in the wild. One bullfrog kept in captivity was said to have died at the age of 16!		 	      

	      The butterfly fish is a generally small sized species of marine fish, found in tropical and subtropical waters, primarily around coral reefs. The butterfly fish is well known for it's brightly coloured body and elaborate markings.  

There are more than 100 different species of butterfly fish found distributed throughout the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans, meaning that the butterfly fish is a salt-water species of (marine) fish.  

The average butterfly fish is fairly small and generally grows to around 4 or 5 inches in length. Some species of the butterfly fish however, are known to grow to 8 inches (20 cm) long and some butterfly fish individuals have been known to grow to 30 cm in length.  

The butterfly fish can live for up to 10 years in a well kept aquarium but will only reach about 7 years old in the wild. The butterfly fish is a difficult fish to keep as they need very specific water conditions that need regular and close monitoring and so the butterfly fish is only found in specific water conditions in the wild.  

The butterfly fish is most closely related to the marine angelfish which is similar in colour but the marine angelfish is often much larger in size than the butterfly fish. Butterfly fish can be distinguished from angelfish by the dark spots on their bodies, dark bands around their eyes and the fact that the mouth of the butterfly fish is more pointed than the mouth of the angelfish.  

Butterfly fish are diurnal animals which means that they are feeding during the day and resting in the coral during the night. Most species of butterfly fish feed on the plankton in the water, coral and sea anemones and occasionally snack on small crustaceans . Those butterfly fish fish that primarily feed on the plankton in the water are generally the smaller species of butterfly fish and can be seen in large groups. The larger species of butterfly fish are fairly solitary or stay with their mating partner.  

Butterfly fish are preyed upon by a number of large predators including fish such as snappers, eels and sharks. Due to the fact that the butterfly fish is small in size, it is able to tuck itself into crevices in the coral in order to escape danger and prevent itself from being eaten.  

Butterfly fish form mating pairs that they remain with for life. Butterfly fish release their eggs into the water which form part of the plankton (it is because of this that many butterfly fish eggs are accidentally eaten by animals that live on plankton). When the eggs hatch, the baby butterfly fish (known as fry) develop armoured plates on their bodies to protect them when they are so vulnerable. As the butterfly fish gets, older these plates disappear. Butterfly fish have an average lifespan of 8 to 10 years although some of the larger butterfly fish species are known to get to much older.  

Today, the butterfly fish is considered to be an endangered animal mainly as butterfly fish populations have been threatened due to water pollution and habitat loss. The destruction of coral reefs occurs mainly from boats, and without their coral habitat, the butterfly fish find it difficult to survive as they have less food and are also more exposed to predators. 		 	      

	      The Burmese cat is native to the south east Asian countries of Myanmar (Burma) and Thailand, but is a very popular cat today and is domestically bred in Europe and across North America.   

The Burmese is cat is thought to have been originally brown in colour but years of the selective breeding of the Burmese cat has meant that today the Burmese cat can be found in many different colours including black, lilac and even ginger.  

The Burmese cat is best known for its beautiful soft fur, which is normally in incredible condition. The Thai name for the Burmese cat is  subh-bha-lak , which means fortunate, beautiful and splendid in appearance.  

The Burmese cat is a popular breed of domestic cat due to its playful and energetic nature. Burmese cats adore to be around humans and are extremely affectionate and loving pets.  

The Burmese cat is a very intelligent animal and is constantly curious and inquisitive in its surroundings. The Burmese cat is also one of the more vocal breeds of domestic cat, along with one of the most elegant.		 	      

	      The caterpillar is the larvae (the baby) of both a butterfly and a moth. After around 2-3 weeks, the caterpillar builds itself into a cocoon where it remains a pupa for a further 2 weeks. The caterpillar then emerges having grown wings.  

The moth caterpillar is well known for being a pest particularly in the fabric industry. One species of caterpillar has destroyed reams of silk in the far east, known in China as a silk worm.  

Generally, most species of caterpillar are considered to be agricultural pests as they can munch their ways through fields of crops, often leaving enormous holes which result in unhealthy or inedible plants.  

Some species of caterpillar are also highly poisonous, particularly those species that live in the tropical rain forests. Other species are only poisonous in their caterpillar form, meaning when they turn into a moth or butterfly, they no longer have venom.  

There are more than 20,000 different species of known caterpillar found all around the world and it is estimated that there are many more that are undiscovered as new species of butterflies and moths are regularly found in regions where there is little, of any, human presence.  

Caterpillars difference in size, colour and appearance depending on their species. Some caterpillars are very brightly coloured where other caterpillar species are quite dull-looking in comparison. Some species of caterpillars are very hairy, where others are very smooth. The main aim of the appearance of the caterpillar is to intimidate it's predators and to deter them from eating it.  

The caterpillar, like the butterfly, is a herbivorous animal but the diets of the caterpillar and the butterfly are very different. Butterflies use their long straw-like tongues to drink the nectar out of flowers, which is an adaptation that occurs in the process where the caterpillar becomes a butterfly. Caterpillars mainly feed on leaves, plants and flowering plants and big holes can often be found in leaves indicating the presence of a caterpillar.   

A number of species of caterpillar are known to be carnivorous and eat a variety of insects that pass them. One caterpillar species found in Hawaii, hooks itself onto a leaf where it stands very straight trying to catching passing bugs.  

Due to their small size and worm-like shape, caterpillars are preyed upon by numerous different species of animal but the main predators of the caterpillar are birds and large insects such as wasps. Caterpillars are also commonly preyed upon by small mammals and reptiles.		 	      

	      The caracal is also commonly known as the Persian Lynx or African Lynx despite the fact that the caracal is not a lynx at all. The caracal is thought to be most closely related to the African golden cat and the serval.  

The caracals name is believed to come from the Turkish word Karakulak, which means black ears. The caracal typically has 20 different muscles in the caracals ears which enables the caracal to detect prey.  

The caracal is a medium sized cat however, with the caracal, its size appears to make little difference on what the caracal hunts. Scientists have found dead ostriches with caracal tooth-marks in them, meaning that the caracal is fast enough to outrun and catch an ostrich, and strong enough to overpower it and kill it.   

The caracal has also been known to leap up into the air to successfully catch and kill flying birds. The caracals are excellent acrobats and can land safely.  

The caracal is normally dark red, grey, or golden sand in colour and as the caracals name suggests, the caracals ears are black, with tufts. Young caracals bear reddish spots on the underbelly that disappear when they grow up.  

The caracal mainly hunts rodents, birds (including ostriches), antelopes, gazelles, and rabbits. The caracal tends to avoid eating very stiff fur by neatly shearing it off with their claws, but they are tolerant of feathers.  

The caracal  can live up to around 12 years in the wild, with some adult caracals living to 17 years old in captivity. The caracal is found in Africa and Southwest Asia, where the caracal prefers grasslands (savannas and tropical grasslands), and deserts. 		 	      

	      The bumble bee is the most common type of bee with around 250 different species of the bumble bee found around the world.   

Despite the fact that the bumble bee can be found in many countries, it is indigenous to the Northern Hemisphere, breeding more successfully in the more temperate climates.  

The bumble bee is best known for having a sting on it's tail, which the bumble bee uses to protect itself from danger. Once the bumble bee has stung something with it's sting, the sting breaks off and the bumble bee generally dies. Despite common belief, not every bumble bee has a sting, in fact the male bumble bees (known as drones) do not have a sting at all. Only the female bumble bee has a sting on it's tail.  

One of the main causes in the decline of the bumble bee populations is the fact that the places where the bumble bees nest are being disturbed often destroying the bumble bee's nest in the process.  

The bumble bee is a herbivorous animal feeding primarily on nectar. Bumble bees also eat pollen and honey when there is no nectar available. Bumble bees have numerous natural predators including birds, larger insects and amphibians such as frogs and newts.  

The queen bumble bee is the one who lays the eggs. She lays her eggs in a round-shaped mound that she then seals with wax. When the baby bumbles bees (larvae) hatch they are forced to eat their way out of their sealed dome.  

Bumble bees are known to play a valuable part in the eco-system as around 1/3 of what humans eat is pollinated by bees. It is estimated that around 80% of the world's crop species are dependent on the pollination by bees to survive.   

Sadly due to high pollution levels and habitat loss, the bumble bee populations are rapidly declining with the bumble bee being one of the few insects that is classed as being threatened with extinction. Human beings do not give bees the respect they deserve, as bumble bees are vital to the survival of plants which are in turn vital to the survival of humans.		 	      

	      The cassowary is a large species of flight-less bird, that is natively found in the forests of Papua New Guinea and on it's surrounding islands. The cassowary is closely related to other large flight-less birds including emus and ostriches and is the third tallest and second heaviest bird in the world behind these two.  

The cassowary inhabits dense tropical forest on New Guinea and it's surrounding islands and parts of north-eastern Australia. There are three species of cassowary which are the Southern Cassowary or Double-wattled Cassowary, found in southern New Guinea, northeastern Australia, and the Aru Islands, the Dwarf Cassowary or Bennett's Cassowary, found in New Guinea, New Britain, and on Yapen, and the Northern Cassowary or Single-wattled Cassowary, found in northern and western New Guinea, and Yapen.  

The cassowary has adapted well to a peaceful life in the depths of the forest and as a result, are rarely seen by humans who are trying to spot them. The cassowary cannot fly and so has developed the need to run and incredibly fast, as these large birds are able to sprint through the jungle at speeds of more than 30mph. The cassowary also has large, sharp claws which aid the cassowary in defending itself from danger.  

The most distinctive features of the cassowary are it's large body size and brightly coloured feathers (females are both larger and more colourful than their male counterparts), and the large, spongy crest that protrudes from the top of the cassowary's head, which can grow to 18 cm in height. Although not much is really known about the purpose of these crests, it's thought that the crest of cassowary is used to assert sexual dominance, to settle disputes and also helps this bird when it is running through the thick undergrowth.  

The cassowary is an omnivorous bird and therefore eats a wide variety of both plants and animals in order to gain all the nutrients that it needs to survive. Cassowaries mainly feed on fruits that have fallen to the ground from the trees, along with leaves, grasses, seeds, insects, spiders and other invertebrates.  

The cassowary has adapted to a life without the need to fly due to the fact that, historically, the cassowary had no predators within it's natural environment and therefore had no need to flee. However, with human settles can mammalian predators including dogs, foxes and cats that mainly destroy the vulnerable nests of the cassowary, eating their eggs.   

The cassowary breeding season is thought to be from May to June when the female cassowary lays up to 8 large, dark eggs into a nest on the ground made from leaf litter. However, the female cassowary then leaves her eggs to be incubated by the male who fiercely guards his future brood from predators for up to 50 days when the cassowary chicks hatch out of their shells.  

Today, mainly due to deforestation and therefore habitat loss and the introduction of predators to the cassowary's native islands, all three cassowary species are at risk in the wild and are classified as vulnerable animals.
		 	      

	      Capybara Classification and Evolution
The Capybara is a large, semi-aquatic rodent that is found inhabiting the water-logged regions of Central and South America. Closely related to other South American rodents such as Chinchillas and Guinea Pigs, the Capybara is the largest rodent in the world weighing up to 75kg and measuring nearly 1.4 meters long. Despite their enormous size though, these mammals have adapted well to life in the water and have a number of distinctive characteristics that aid their amphibious lifestyle, including the webbed skin between their toes which is particularly helpful when swimming. Interestingly enough, the common name of the Capybara is thought to mean "Master of the Grasses", whilst it's scientific name comes from the Greek word for water hog.  
Capybara Anatomy and Appearance
The Capybara is a heavy, stocky-looking animal with a short head and muzzle in comparison to it's body and hardly any tail at all. They have short but sturdy limbs and hoof-like claws on their toes which along with the webbing, helps the Capybara both when negotiating the slippery banks and with swimming and also prevents the Capybara from sinking too deeply into the surrounding mud. Their coarse, short fur is pale to dark brown in colour with varying tinges of yellow, red and grey and is perfectly designed to dry out quickly once the Capybara is back on land. One of the Capybara's most distinctive features is the fact that their eyes, ears and nostrils are all positioned on top of it's head meaning that they still have excellent sight, sound and smell whilst in the water. The placement of these features also means that when threatened, the Capybara can retreat into the water only leaving these parts of it's body exposed to hide from potential predators.  
Capybara Distribution and Habitat
The Capybara is found throughout a variety of habitats in Central and South America providing that there is a constant source of standing freshwater. They are found in Panama, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru, down through Brazil and Paraguay and into northern Argentina and Uruguay where they are most commonly found in swamps, marshes, rivers and lakes. The Capybara can be found inhabiting grassy plains and even in rainforests where they occupy territories in herds, with these areas reported to be adequate territories year round even with the differing seasons. During the dry season the Capybara must have water and areas where they are able to feed (often small sandbars in the water), but in the wet season when the area floods they must still be able to graze which they often do on the grassy banks.   
Capybara Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Capybara is a very sociable animal that tends to inhabit densely vegetated areas close to water in herds of around 20 individuals, which are usually made up of a dominant male with a number of females and their young. Capybara herds occupy very stable home ranges that are known to vary in size depending on the size of the herd to ensure that there is enough food, and although small parts of their territory may overlap those of another herd, they will tend chase intruders off their patch. The Capybara actually sleeps very little, preferring instead to doze whilst resting during the morning in thickets on the banks, or wallowing in the mud and water when cooling down in the heat of the midday sun. They begin to emerge onto land in the early evening when they graze on grasses and aquatic plants which the Capybara will continue to do throughout most of the night.  
Capybara Reproduction and Life Cycles
In a Capybara herd it is only the dominant male that has the breeding rights to the females, and although it can occur all year round depending on the conditions, the breeding season tends to be during the rains in April and May. After a gestation period that lasts for around five months, the female Capybara gives birth to between 1 and 8 pups on land. Capybara young are very well developed at birth and not only have all their fur and can see, but are also able to run, swim and dive within hours of birth. The female rejoins the main group within hours with her newborn offspring, which begin to eat grass after about a week (although they will continue to suckle milk from their mother until they are around four months old). The Capybara tends to live for up to 10 years in the wild and slightly longer when kept in captivity.   
Capybara Diet and Prey
The Capybara is a herbivorous animal that only eats plant matter in order to acquire all of the nutrients it needs. The diet of the Capybara is mainly made up of grasses and aquatic plants, along with fruits and berries and the occasional munch on soft tree bark. Despite spending a number of hours during the night grazing, the Capybara is quite fussy with around 75% of their diet involving between three and six different species of plant. Like all other species of rodent, their two front teeth grow continuously throughout their life meaning that they must gnaw and chew their food to grind them down which they do in a back and forth motion rather than from side to side. They are also known to both regurgitate their food in order to chew it again (much like a Cow) and also eat their own droppings which help to break down the cellulose in the grass, along with aiding their digestive system in general.  
Capybara Predators and Threats
Despite the large size and secretive aquatic nature of this large rodent, their slow and gentle disposition makes them a rewarding meal for numerous hungry predators throughout their natural range. Wildcats including Jaguars, Pumas and Ocelots are the primary predators of the Capybara along with Caimans and Eagles that can hunt the younger ones from the sky above. The Capybara is also one of the best sources of food for the world's heaviest snake, the Anaconda, along with other species of large snake. The Capybara is also hunted by Humans in parts of it's natural range for both it's meat and the hide which is prized amongst some. Although the global Capybara population is not considered to be under threat, numbers in these areas have declined. Habitat loss also affects Capybara populations through Central and South America as they are specifically adapted to life in their unique watery wilderness.  
Capybara Interesting Facts and Features
Capybara never stray far from water as when one senses danger it gives a short bark that encourages the herd to quickly scuttle into the water to hide. They are so well adapted to going unseen in the water that the Capybara is actually able to hold it's breath for up to five minutes after diving in. Although Capybara herds tend to average between 10 and 30 individuals, larger groups are not uncommon with some numbering up to 100 members in home ranges generally larger than those of smaller groups. Capybara are known to communicate between one another using both scent (which is secreted by their glands) and sound, and have a number of different vocalisations including whistles, barks, grunts and squeals.  
Capybara Relationship with Humans
Due to their slow and generally gentle nature, Humans have lived alongside Capybara for hundreds of years peacefully. However, they may not be aggressive animals but are often killed in certain areas for their meat and skin which has led to population declines in these regions. The Capybara has also been affected by Human activity in their native regions in general including both growing Human settlements and land clearance for agriculture. It is in these areas particularly that when there is not an adequate supply of food available, some Capybara have been known to enter crop fields where they can cause a great deal of damage and can be seen as pests.  
Capybara Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Capybara population throughout Central and South America remains fairly stable and it is because they are still common in much of their natural range, that the Capybara is listed as being of Least Concern from becoming extinct in their natural environments in the near future by the IUCN Red List. Population numbers in certain areas however, have declined due to hunting and others are affected by loss of their natural habitat both from deforestation and increasing pollution levels in the water.
		 	      

	       The Chinese Crested Dog is a smaller (10-13 lbs) hairless breed of dog. Like most hairless dog breeds, the Chinese Crested comes in two varieties, both with and without fur, which are born in the same litter, the Hairless and the Powderpuff.		 	      

	       The breed is highly affectionate, and some have called the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel the ultimate lap dog or the love sponge of dogs.  

 Most dogs of the breed are playful, extremely patient and eager to please. As such, dogs of the breed are usually good with children and other dogs. A well-socialized Cavalier will not be shy about socializing with much larger dogs. (However, on occasion, this tendency can be dangerous, as many cavaliers will presume all other dogs to be equally friendly, and may attempt to greet and play with aggressive dogs.)  

 Cavaliers will adapt quickly to almost any environment, family, and location. Their ability to bond with larger and smaller dogs make them ideal in houses with more than one breed of dog.  

 Cavaliers are great with people of all ages, from children to seniors, making them a very versatile dog.		 	      

	       Cairn Terriers are intelligent, lively, strong, and loyal. Like most terriers, they love to dig after real or imagined prey. Cairn Terriers have a strong prey instinct and will need comprehensive training. However, they are reasonably intelligent and, although willful, can be trained. Although it is often said that they are disobedient, this is not the case provided correct training is applied.  

Cairns are working dogs and are still used as such in parts of Scotland. Cairn Terriers generally adapt well to children and are suitable family dogs.		 	      

	      The humble chicken is thought to originate from the red jungle fowl and the grey jungle fowl, found in the rainforests of India. Today, the domestic chicken is thought to be more closely related to the grey jungle fowl due to the yellow colouring of it's skin. Although they are similar, the Indian jungle fowl is about half the size of a domestic chicken today.  

The chicken was thought to be domesticated more than 10,000 years ago where the Indians and later the Vietnamese bred chickens for meat, feathers and eggs. The domestication of chickens is thought to have then spread rapidly across Asia and into Europe and Africa resulting in the chicken being the most widely farmed animal today.  

There are thought to be at least 25 billion chickens worldwide, which is the highest population of any bird in the world. The chicken usually gets to about 40 cm tall and surprisingly, the chicken is one of the species of bird that is not very successful as far as flying is concerned. The longest recorded flight of a chicken is 13 seconds and the longest recorded distance is 301.5 feet.  

The male chicken is typically referred to as a cockerel but is known as a rooster in some countries such as Australia. A female chicken is called a hen and the little, fluffy yellow babies are called chicks. Chickens can live for up to 4 or 5 years in the wild but many commercially farmed chickens usually do not exceed the age of one. Many chickens have been known to live for longer and the oldest recorded chicken was said to live until it was 16 years old  

Chickens are omnivorous animals meaning that they eat a mixture of plant and animal matter. Although chickens are commonly seen scratching on the ground in search of seeds, berries and insects, chickens have also been known to eat larger animals such as lizards and even small mice.   

Chickens are easy prey for numerous predators including foxes, cats, dogs, raccoons, snakes and even large rats. Chicken eggs are also a very popular snack for many of these animals and are also stolen by other animals including larger birds and weasels.  

Chickens are kept by humans for their meat and eggs. Breeders tend to keep different types of chicken for these different purposes and meat chickens will often only reach 3 months old before they are killed, which is why it is crucial that chicken eaters ensure that the chicken they are eating has had the best existence possible in it's few months of life. The same principle applies to the egg laying chickens with the typical commercial hen laying around 300 eggs in one year. After that, the hens tend to start laying fewer eggs and are generally killed by their breeder.  

Chickens are very sociable birds and are at their happiest when surrounded by other chickens. In one chicken flock there can be any number of hens but generally only one cockerel who is the dominant male. The dominant cockerel pushes other cockerels out of their flock when they start becoming big enough to be a threat to him. The dominant male is usually the mating partner for all of the hens that he watches over.  

Chicken is one of the most widespread meats in the world with numerous cultures having their own special ways to prepare and eat chickens. The UK's most common dish is roast chicken, the USA's most common dish is fried chicken and in China they use every part of the chicken including their feet which are commonly found in soup.  

There has been a great deal of media attention focused on chickens in the last few years, mainly concerning the welfare of commercially farmed chickens. Intensive farming occurs around the world where meat chickens are force fed and packed in a shed with hundreds of thousands of other chickens often with no free space for the chickens to walk around. Egg laying chickens are shut in tiny cages and are slaughtered when they no longer produce as many eggs as they used to. The conditions that intensively farmed chickens live in are utterly disgusting, which is why chicken lovers should fork out a few extra pennies for organic or free range meat and eggs, to ensure that the chicken has had a good quality of life.  		 	      

	      The common buzzard is a medium sized raptor, most commonly found throughout Europe and Russia. Despite rapid declines in the UK's common buzzard population numbers a couple of hundred years ago, the common buzzard is now the most common bird of prey in Britain.  

The common buzzard is found throughout Europe and Russia and also in parts of Asia and Northern Africa, where the common buzzard spends the cooler winter months. The common buzzard is found in a variety of habitats particularly woodland, moorland, scrub, pasture, arable, marsh bog, villages and even in towns and cities.   

Like other medium to large sized birds of prey, the common buzzard is a generally solitary animal, hunting and feeding alone. However, it is not uncommon to see small groups of common buzzards flying together when migrating, with as many as 30 common buzzards being spotted at once.  

The common buzzard is quite large with broad, rounded wings, and a short neck and tail and when gliding or soaring it will often hold its wings in a 'V' shape. Common buzzards are variable in colour from dark brown to tan, although all have dark wingtips and a finely barred tail. The call of the common buzzard resembles a mewing sound and can easily be mistaken for a cat.  

The common buzzard is a large and opportunistic predator, surviving on a purely carnivorous diet. The common buzzard primarily preys on small mammals (such as rodents) and birds, along with a variety of other animals including insects, earthworms, snakes and carrion.  

Due to the fact that the common buzzard is a fast and effective flyer, the common buzzard has few predators in the skies besides larger birds of prey such as eagles. On land however, the common buzzard is preyed upon by a number of ground-dwelling predators including wildcats and foxes.  

Common buzzard pairs are known to mate for life and make their nest in plentiful habitats such as on the outskirts of forest or woodland. The female common buzzard lays 2 to 4 eggs which hatch after being incubated by her for about 1 month. The common buzzard chicks leave the nest (fledge) when they are about 45 days old, after being cared for by their parents (mainly the mother).  

Despite once being nearly wiped out in the United Kingdom, today common buzzard populations are now thriving not only here but also across Europe, with the common buzzard being Europe's second most common raptor behind the common kestrel.

		 	      

	      Chipmunks are small squirrel-like rodents that are native to North America, although one species is found in some European countries.  

Chipmunks eat a wide variety of wildlife like frogs, mushrooms, birds, eggs, plants nuts and seeds. In the autumn, the chipmunks begin to gather their winter food stash, which they store in their burrows to last them until spring.  

The most common chipmunks are the red coloured chipmunks with light brown stripes on their back. These are North American chipmunks. Chipmunks are also becoming more popular as pets.  

There are 25 different species of chipmunk living in the North American forests. The chipmunk is often referred to as a small squirrel due to the obvious similarities between the two mammals.  

The chipmunk plays a vital within the forest eco-system which the chipmunk inhabits through the dispersing of seeds when the chipmunk eats the fruits and berries that the forest plants produce and the chipmunk chews on the wood of plant stalks and tree trunks which disperses the spores from the plant into the surrounding forest.  

Chipmunks construct extensive underground burrows which can be more than 3.5 m in length and these chipmunk burrows often have several well-concealed entrances to keep the chipmunk burrow a secret from unwanted predators. Within the chipmunk burrow the chipmunk sleeping quarters are kept extremely clean as the chipmunks keep nut shells and feces stored in separate refuse tunnels.		 	      

	      Cats (domestic cats) seem to date back to around ancient Egyptian times, when they were worshiped and heralded as sacred animals to the Gods in Egypt. The cat has since become an honored and valued member of family homes worldwide.  

A cats senses are superior amongst the animal world, with exceptional sight, smell and taste, cats are able to subtly sneak up on, and catch their prey with immense success.  

Despite the cats unbeatable night-vision, a cats eyesight during the day is actually not too dissimilar from a  humans! Due to this, cats are more nocturnal hunters looking for small rodents and birds.  

The average domestic cat sleeps for around 18 hours a day and tends to spend their waking time hunting for food. Despite wild cats being solitary animals, the domestic cat is known to enjoy attention from humans and other animals and will often even get on well with some dogs.  
 Cat Foot Facts 

Cats have soft pads on the bottom of their paws to enable them to move smoothly and run quickly.
Cats have sharp claws to help the cat to grip when running and climbing trees.
Sharp claws and soft pads allow the cat to hold onto and grip its prey effectively.
The sharp claws of the cat are retractable which allows them to remain sharp as they avoid contact with the ground when it is not needed.
Cats are able to walk very precisely as they put their back paws in place of the front paws, helping to minimise noise and visible tracks.

  
 Cat Teeth Facts 

Cats have highly specialised teeth which allows them to both bite and tear meat apart.
The front set of teeth in the mouth of the cat are well developed and act efficiently to shear meat apart, like a pair of scissors.
Cats have tiny hooks or spikes on their tongue which helps the cat to get any remaining meat from bones.
The hooked tongue of the cat is very beneficial so that the cat is able to clean itself effectively.
The average adult cat has 30 teeth which include 12 incisors, 4 canines, 10 premolars and 4 molars.



		 	      

	       The Chesapeake Bay Retriever is valued for its bright and happy disposition, intelligence, quiet good sense, and affectionate protective nature.  

 Some of them can be quite vocal when happy, and some will smile by baring their front teeth in a peculiar grin - this is not a threat but a sign of joy or submissiveness.  

Chesapeakes are naturally dominant and although they won't usually start a fight, they will defend their position as the alpha dog. Obedience training is a must with this breed.		 	      

	      The caiman lizard is a medium sized species of lizard, natively found in the jungles of South America. The caiman lizard is powerfully built and is one of the largest lizard species on the American continent.  

The caiman lizard can be found inhabiting the rainforest and swampland areas of South America in the countries of Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Caiman lizards are most commonly spotted in areas which are flooded as they are very aquatic creatures.  

The caiman lizard is a large and powerfully built lizard that is known to grow up to 120 centimetres from it's snout to the tip of it's tail. Today, there is only one species of caiman lizard found in South America which is the Northern caiman lizard.  

As the caiman lizard spends most of it's time either in or around the water, the body of the caiman lizard has adapted in ways which help it to live an aquatic lifestyle more successfully. The best example of this is the long, flattened tail of the caiman lizard which helps to steer it while swimming.  

Caiman lizards are large carnivorous predators that only hunt other animals in order to gain their nutrients. Snails are the primary source of food for the caiman lizard along with other invertebrates such as insects and crabs, and occasional larger animals such as fish, rodents and amphibians.  

Due to it's relatively large size and part water, part tree-dwelling lifestyle, caiman lizards have limited predators within their natural environment. Large predatory mammals including jaguars are known to hunt the caiman lizard along with other large reptiles including snakes and crocodiles.  

Although little is known about the reproduction of the caiman lizard, they are thought to behave in a similar way to other large lizard species. After mating, female caiman lizards will lay their eggs into a hole in the riverbank which they cover up to protect them from hungry predators. When the baby caiman lizards hatch, they are completely independent as there is no prenatal care from the caiman lizard parents.  

Today, although the caiman lizard is not considered to be a species that is under immediate threat from extinction, the caiman lizard populations have been declining in specific areas, mainly due to habitat loss often caused by high levels of pollution and deforestation.		 	      

	       The cesky fousek is a hunting dog able to adapt to any sort of terrain. Even though blustering when confronted with game he remains very easy to manage and affectionate towards his owner.		 	      

	      The common frog is a medium-sized species of frog that inhabits a wide range of habitats across much of Europe. Although the common frog is not as commonly seen in our gardens as it once was, the common frog still appears to be surviving effectively within its environment and is not considered to be an animal that is currently at risk from extinction.  

The common frog is found throughout the European continent, with the range of the common frog stretching from Ireland in the east to the mountains in western Russia. The common from is also found in parts of Scandinavia that actually lie within the cold Arctic Circle.  

The common frog tends to grow to between 6 cm and 10 cm in length. The common frog has dark blotches that run down its back, with the body of the common frog ranging from green, to brown, to grey in colour. The common frog is said to be able to change its skin tone in order to fit in more effectively in its surroundings.  

Like many other frog species, the common frog has webbed toes and eyes on the top of its head, in order to better equip the common frog for its aquatic lifestyle. The male common frog can also be distinguished from the female, by a small swelling that appears on one of his toes during the mating season.  

The common frog is a carnivorous animal and the majority of the common frog's diet consists of small invertebrates such as insects and spiders. The common frog also hunts larger invertebrates including worms and snails that are present in the common frog's woodland or marshland habitat.  

Due to its small size, the common frog often has numerous predators within its natural environment. The common frog is eaten by various animal species that includes foxes, cats, birds, snakes and even some large fish.  

Common frogs tend to breed in the early spring, when mating takes place in calm, shallow pools of water. The female common frog lays up to 2,000 eggs in a sticky cluster that floats on the water's surface, known as frogspawn. Once developed the common frog tadpoles emerge into the water where they are fully aquatic until they metamorphose into adult common frogs and are able to leave the water.		 	      

	      Chinchillas are medium sized rodents native to the Andes mountains in South America. Chinchillas are named after the tribe that hunted the chinchillas for their dense fur, the Chinchas. A chinchilla is therefore a fairly rare animal in its natural habitat today.  

Chinchillas feed on nuts, seeds and berries. They can defend themselves by spraying urine and releasing their fur when they are under attack.  

In more recent years people are beginning to keep chinchillas as pets. Chinchilla domestication occurred in the 1920s when an engineer in Chile took a group of chinchillas to California. Since then chinchillas are bred as pets and sold all around the world.

When handling chinchillas, it is important to not pick them up from underneath like a rat or hamster, because they have a feature called "floating ribs". Their ribs are not fully attached to their spine and if pressure is applied upwards, the ribs could puncture vital organs and kill the chinchilla.

Pet chinchillas require frequent attention as well as a supply of dust for "dust baths".		 	      

	      Crocodiles are one of the planets oldest living creatures, thought to be around 200 million years old which means that crocodiles were around in dinosaur times.  

Crocodiles live throughout the watery tropics of Africa, Asia, America and Australia, congregating in freshwater environments in the worlds lakes and rivers. Crocodiles feed on fish, reptiles and mammals, the prey size generally dependent on the size of the crocodile.  

Legend has it that if you are being chased by a crocodile, the only chance you have of getting away is by outsmarting the crocodile. Apparently the way to do this is to run away from the crocodile diagonally down a hill! The myth says that crocodiles have a very slow turning circle meaning that if you run diagonally, the crocodile theoretically cant catch you!  

As crazy as it sounds, crocodiles are known to swallow stones when they are on the banks of the water. The crocodile does this to not only help its digestive system but also to aid the crocodiles water buoyancy. It is thought that by swallowing stones, the crocodile may also be able to swim to deeper parts of the water.  

The crocodile is also unable to stick out its tongue (probably from all those stones in the crocodiles stomach)! The crocodile is able to regrow new teeth very quickly after losing the old ones, throughout the crocodiles life. 		 	      

	      Discus Classification and Evolution
The Discus is a species of tropical Cichlid, found in the Amazon basin of South America. There are three recognised sub-species of the Discus which are the Green Discus, the Blue Discus and the Brown Discus. The Discus was first described by Dr. Heckel in 1840 and despite variations in colour, all are similar in appearance but are found in different geographic locations. There is however some disagreement over the scientific names for each species, but many agree that most captive bred Discus are thought to have originated from these three sub-species.  
Discus Anatomy and Appearance
The Discus is a medium sized Fish, with a round, flattened body and large extended fins which also add to it's disk-like shape (from which it get it's name). Discus have small mouths and small bright red eyes, and vary in colour depending on the species (either green, blue or brown in the wild, but there are many new variations found in aquariums around the world today such as red). The round body of the Discus also has nine dark, vertical stripes which are thought to be used both for camouflage (along with it's colour and flattened body) and to communicate within the school.  
Discus Distribution and Habitat
The Discus is one of only a few Cichlid species found outside of Africa. They are found inhabiting sections of deep, calm, well-wooded waters in the Amazon Basin and it's tributaries. These slow-moving rivers and backwaters of the Amazon river system that stretch through Brazil, Columbia and Peru, provide the perfect habitat for these large Fish, which generally shelter amongst the submerged roots and branches. Discus are known to be fussy about the water conditions in artificial habitats and are not for the inexperienced keeper. In their natural environment, Discus inhabit soft, acidic, and very warm waters, where there is less competition from other Fish.  
Discus Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike many other Cichlid species, the Discus is a very sociable Fish and is often found in large groups (known as schools), in their native habitats. Living in these large groups means that the Discus displays very advanced behaviour for a Cichlid, as other species are not schooling Fish. Discus are generally mild mannered but are known to become aggressive within their pair bonds, or when defending their young or territory. One common observation from those kept in tanks, is that the Fish at the bottom of the social ladder, can be bullied extensively by groups of Discus higher up the chain, so much in fact that it can lead to death in some cases.  
Discus Reproduction and Life Cycles
Discus form pair bonds when they are about 75% of their adult size and these pairs tend to remain together for life. They choose a nearly vertical spawning site, which is then cleaned in preparation for the female to lay between 80 and 400 eggs. The male then fertilises them and both parents help to guard their eggs until they hatch. Like other Cichlids, Discus parents care for their young well and even secrete a slimy substance through their scales for their fry to feed off for the first couple of weeks. Discus can live until they are between 10 and 15 years old but it is not uncommon for those kept in well-run artificial habitats, to reach even older ages.  
Discus Diet and Prey
Like many other Fish, Discus will eat almost anything that will fit in their mouths. Despite this, they have a predominately meat-based diet that is high in protein. They mainly feed on small Fish and fry, along with Larvae and other Aquatic Insects, and invertebrates such as Worms. They tend to eat relatively slowly, grazing through the surrounding waters for tasty morsels. Those kept in captivity are also commonly fed Brine Shrimp and Bloodworm which are both protein-rich, along with standard Fish flakes (although this needs to be monitored to avoid over feeding).  
Discus Predators and Threats
Discus inhabit areas where there is plenty of underwater debris for them to hide amongst. Their unique shape, colours and markings also provide them with camouflage from approaching predators in the Amazon river system. Larger species of Fish, Turtles and other water-dwelling animals are the most common predators of the Discus, along with other predators such as Bats and Birds that hunt the Discus from the sky above. Discus populations across South America are also threatened by habitat destruction, caused both by deforestation and pollution of the surrounding water.  
Discus Interesting Facts and Features
The Discus today is an incredibly popular aquarium species and it is thought to be one of the most written about tropical Fish, over a period of just 50 years. Although Fish today are all thought to have come from the green, brown and blue Discus in the wild, others colours are much more common in tanks including yellow, black and red. Today there is a major industry behind the captive breeding of Discus, which primarily occurs in Fish farms in a number of countries in Asia. They are relatively peaceful Fish, co-inhabiting their surroundings with other, generally smaller Fish that provide no competition for food.  
Discus Relationship with Humans
The grace and elegance of the Discus have fascinated Fish enthusiasts from around the world since they were first discovered in South America in the mid 1800s. However, excessive captive breeding has led to the fading of their dark stripes meaning that they can communciate less effectively within the group. They can also be very difficult to keep in artificial habitats as a great deal of care and attention needs to be paid to both their water quality and their feeding, along with the other species that they are sharing their environment with.   
Discus Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Discus is listed as a Threatened species in it's natural habitat meaning that if the situation progresses unchanged, the Discus will be at threat from extinction in the wild in the near future. Although many variations of Discus occur in tanks around the world, population numbers of the original Discus species in the wild are declining, primarily due to the decreasing quality of the surrounding water.


		 	      

	      Cows are raised in many different countries around the world, mainly for the cows natural resources such as milk, meat and leather. In India the cow is seen as a sacred animal.  

There are thought to be nearly 1.5 million cows worldwide, most of the cows are sadly kept by farmers but there is sure to be the odd rouge escaped wild cows somewhere!  

Cows spend their days in herds of around 40-50 cows, grazing on the grasslands and shrubbery. There is an old English tale which claims that cows will always sit down when its going to rain.  

The cow is known well amongst farmers for its ability to interbreed with species that are closely related to the cow. These can include yaks and bison, where these animals have been successful bred with the cow to produce hybrid cattle. Oddly enough though, the cow is unable to successfully breed with buffalo or water buffalo.  

The cow has just one stomach (not four) but the cows stomach contains four separate compartments that work with the complex digestive system of the cow which allows the cow to control substances that are difficult and near impossible for many other animals to digest.  

It is commonly thought that cows, mainly male cows called bulls, are aggravated by the colour red. This is in fact not true as cows are colour blind and cannot distinguish between different colours. This common misconception has come about from the days of bull fighting where trainers were typically seen using a red flag. It is not the colour of the flag that would spur the cow on but in fact, the waving of the material itself.  

It is thought that around 18% of the greenhouse gases that are currently being released into the atmosphere are coming from livestock such as cows. This is due to the methane that cows expel through burping and flatulence. 		 	      

	      The crested penguin (also known as the Fiordland crested penguin) is a medium-sized species of penguin natively found along the New Zealand coast. Crested penguins are named after the prominent yellow feathers that are arranged over the eyes and run along on top of these penguin's heads.   

The crested penguin is found inhabiting dense tropical rainforest along the Fiordland coast, which is a region of New Zealand's South Island, found at the south-west tip. The crested penguin is also found on a number of the surrounding islands in Stewart Island where it shares it's habitat with other penguin species such as the yellow-eyed penguin and the little penguin.  

The crested penguin has a blue/black coloured back and flippers, with a black head and red beak. The underside of the crested penguin is completely white as are the patches that are found either side of the crested penguin's beak. The bright yellow eyebrows of the crested penguin (from where it gets its name), run from behind it's eyes along each side of it's head.  

The crested penguin is a medium sized penguin that inhabits it's native range in a colony with other crested penguin individuals. Although they spend the majority of their time together on land, crested penguins usually go out to sea with the rest of the colony but tend to hunt on their own, returning when they are full.   

The crested penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Squid and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the crested penguin's diet along with smaller organisms including krill and various species of fish.  

The crested penguin is usually found nesting in the forests and scrub that line the New Zealand coast and although historically undisturbed, the crested penguin now has a number of land-dwelling predators including cats, dogs and foxes along with rats and weasels that hunt their eggs. Large seals including fur seals and leopard seals hunt the crested penguin in the water along with large sharks and killer whales.  

On average, the crested penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female crested penguin lays two eggs in her nest in the forest which are incubated by both parents for up to a couple of months, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The crested penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are more than a few months old and are able to hunt for themselves.  

Today, the crested penguin is listed as an endangered animal with an estimated wild population of less than 3,000 breeding pairs. The crested penguin populations have declined rapidly in their native habitats due to deforestation and the introduction of mammalian predators.
		 	      

	      Clouded Leopard Classification and Evolution
The Clouded Leopard is a medium sized feline that is found inhabiting the dense tropical jungles of south-east Asia. The Clouded Leopard is the smallest of the world's big cats and despite it's name, it is not actually that closely related to Leopards and is instead believed by many to be an evolutionary link between big cats and small cats. Clouded Leopards are incredibly shy animals and coupled with their highly nocturnal lifestyle has meant that little is known about their behaviour in the wild as they are very rarely seen. The Clouded Leopard has recently been split into two separate species which are the Clouded Leopard (found on the mainland) and the Sunda Clouded Leopard (Borneo and Sumatra). Both species are already very rare with numbers constantly declining due to the hunting of them for their meat and fur, along the loss of vast areas of their tropical forest habitat.  
Clouded Leopard Anatomy and Appearance
The Clouded Leopard is one the most distinctive of all the big cats and one of the most beautiful. As their name suggests, their yellow to grey coloured coat is patterned with large, cloud-like markings that are lined with black and are dark in the centre. Their small but stocky bodies are supported by short legs and like other cat species (besides the Cheetah), the Clouded Leopard is able to retract it's claws into the skin on it's toes to keep them sharp. One of the most distinctive features of the Clouded Leopard is their rather long canines which can grow up to two inches long, making them about the same length as those of a Tiger. They have has two broad black bars on the back of their neck and black rings that run the length of their incredibly long tail. The tail of a Clouded Leopard can reach 65cm in length and is used to help the animal to balance whilst moving about in the trees.   
Clouded Leopard Distribution and Habitat
The Clouded Leopard is natively found in south-east Asia throughout a number of countries including India, Southern China, Burma, Nepal, throughout Indochina and on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. It was once also found in Taiwan but is now widely thought to be extinct there. Clouded Leopards spend nearly all their lives in the trees and so prefer dense forest habitats including both tropical and subtropical forests and jungles, and at altitudes of up to 2,000 meters. However, despite seemingly only being found in very dense rainforest, the Clouded Leopard has also been recorded in a variety of other habitats including in tall grasslands in Nepal and in the mangrove swamps of Borneo. The highest population is thought to reside on the island of Borneo but they are threatened throughout their natural range by deforestation to clear land for agriculture or by loggers.  
Clouded Leopard Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Clouded Leopard is an incredibly shy and elusive animal that rests high in the trees during the day and actively hunts under the cover of night. They are territorial animals that move just over a mile a day throughout their home range which varies from 50 to more than 120 square miles in size, depending on the region. They are incredibly agile climbers that can not only speed up trunks and climb about in the branches, but they have also been observed running head first back down tree trunks and move along horizontal branches by hanging underneath, using their tails for balance. The Clouded Leopard is a solitary animal that marks it's territory using urine and scratch marks on trees, however, very little is actually known about their social behaviour in the wild.  
Clouded Leopard Reproduction and Life Cycles
Clouded Leopard kittens are born in the summer months after a gestation period that lasts for around 3 months. Between one and five kittens are born blind and the large spots on their fur are completely dark in colour and don't develop the adult colouration for about six months. Clouded Leopard kittens open their eyes by the time they are around 10 days old and are fully active at five weeks of age, beginning to learn how to hunt with their mother shortly afterwards. Although they are eating solids food by the time they are 10 weeks of age they are not fully weaned until nine months, when they become independent and leave their mother to establish a territory of their own. Clouded Leopards are known to get to be 17 years old in captivity but little is known about the extent of their lifespan in the wild due to their incredibly elusive nature.  
Clouded Leopard Diet and Prey
The Clouded Leopard is a carnivorous animal that only hunts and eats other animals in order to gain the nutrition it needs to survive. Their preferred prey species is quite dependant on the region where they live as those Clouded Leopards found in Thailand favour rodents, Ground Squirrels and Porcupines whereas individuals elsewhere more readily hunt primates including Pig-Tailed Macaques, Gibbons and Proboscis Monkeys. Clouded Leopards are nocturnal hunters that either come down to the ground to stalk their prey or lie waiting on a branch to pounce on it's victim below. They are also known to hunt birds, Deer, Cattle, young Wild Boars and livestock such as Chickens and Goats in areas close to human habitation when food in the jungle is hard to find. Clouded Leopards are known to retire to the trees once having eaten to rest and let their meal digest.  
Clouded Leopard Predators and Threats
Due to it's large size and incredibly secretive nature, the Clouded Leopard has no real natural predators in the jungle with the exception of the occasional Tiger or Leopard with which Clouded Leopards compete for food. People are the primary threat to Clouded Leopards as they are hunted for meat and their beautiful pelts, which is a particular problem in certain areas. They are also severely threatened by habitat loss as vast areas of their natural forest habitats are being deforested either to log the tropical timbers or to clear land for agriculture including the planting of oil palm plantations. Increasing levels of human activity in general is also pushing the remaining populations deeper still in the forests, making it even harder for experts to try and study them.    
Clouded Leopard Interesting Facts and Features
People used to think that the stocky build and the large canines of the Clouded Leopard were adaptations for hunting larger prey than itself in the forest. However, studies have shown that in fact 65% of their diet is comprised of smaller prey species including rodents and primates. Although the Clouded Leopard is thought to only hunt in the dead of night, some individuals have been observed leading a more crepuscular lifestyle and more actively hunting in the early morning or at dusk. Despite the hunting and trading of the Clouded Leopard now being banned, the practise still continues as people are after their beautifully patterned fur. This is often used in the making of fur coats with just one coat needing the pelts of around 25 Clouded Leopard individuals to produce it.   
Clouded Leopard Relationship with Humans
People have hunted the Clouded Leopard for food for many years but also for it's body parts. It's beautiful pelt is highly sought after and it's bones and canines are often sold to both native people and outsiders for use in medicine and for decorative purposes. Despite being banned, the hunting and trading of their body parts still continues today but the biggest threat to the world's Clouded Leopard populations is their rapidly dwindling range. Vast areas of ancient forests are being cleared every day for logging or to make way for palm oil plantations. Land in these regions is often cleared illegally which has devastating consequences in areas that are home to some of the rarest and more unique species on the planet.   
Clouded Leopard Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, both species of Clouded Leopard are listed by the IUCN as animals that are Vulnerable to extinction from their natural habitats in the near future. It is estimated that there are fewer than 10,000 mature Clouded Leopard individuals left in the wild, with the highest densities thought to be found on the tropical island of Borneo. However, population numbers are continuing to decline throughout their natural range due to habitat loss and the hunting of them for their fur, with the species having already become extinct from it's native habitats in Taiwan. 
		 	      

	      Catfish are a group of bottom-feeding fish that are found in freshwater habitats and coastal regions on and around every continent in the world with the exception of Antarctica. Catfish are most easily identified by their flattened broad heads and the long whisker-like barbels that protrude from the mouth of the catfish.  

The long barbels of the catfish contain the taste buds of the catfish and so are often most commonly used for smelling and therefore sensing what is about to eat (and to hide from) in the surrounding waters. Despite the name however, not all catfish species have prominent whisker-like barbels.  

There are nearly 3,000 known species of catfish in the world but it is thought that the actual number of catfish species could be as high as 4,500 as many species of catfish are found in areas where there is little or no human contact. Although catfish can generally be found in faster-flowing rivers and streams, some catfish species have adapted to living in shallow salt-water environments while other catfish species live their lives in caves underground.  

The average catfish is around a meter in length usually slightly less depending on the species. Catfish however can range in size from just a centimetre in length to more than two meters long. The largest species of catfish is the Mekong catfish, which is found inhabiting parts of the Mekong river that flows through Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam. The largest Mekong catfish ever found measured nearly 3 meters in length.  

Catfish generally have a carnivorous diet, although the tiny catfish species have been known to ingest small aquatic plants. Catfish tend to feed on fish, insects and worms that dwell close to the river bed, along with amphibians such as frogs and newts and occasionally small reptiles and mammals.   

Due to the wide diversity and range of the catfish, the catfish has numerous predators all around the world. Large fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals and even birds all prey on the 3,000 different catfish species.  

Female catfish spawn (lay their eggs) close to the surface of the water where they are safe from other bottom-dwelling aquatic animals. Female catfish lay between 10 and 90 little eggs at a time which hatch in less than a week.		 	      

	       The Clumber spaniel is an efficient gundog, although not as fast as some. It is excellent for upland hunting in heavy cover, and can be a good retriever when trained. The clumber was bred to run through bushes with their big heads and thick, but soft coat.   

Nothing supposedly is going to stop them on the hunt. He is also an excellent tracker. Their temperament is described as gentle, loyal and affectionate, but dignified and aloof with strangers. They may be active as puppies, but are generally very calm, lazy, and unmotivated as adults.  

 Disadvantages of owning a Clumber are said to be constant shedding, snoring, drooling, especially after a drink of water, and an incredible inventiveness for raiding kitchen counters, cabinets, and even the refrigerator. One disadvantage is that the dogs think of themselves as a lap dog. They will try to sit on your lap for your affection. They cant jump on couches either because of their weak hips. Puppies are especially curious and inventive.  

 The combination of a very people-focused disposition and a strong urge to carry something has led to many missing shoes and other articles of clothing.		 	      

	       Certain types of collie (for example Rough Collies, Smooth Collies, Shetland Sheepdogs and some strains of Border Collie and other breeds) have been bred for many generations as pets and for the sport of conformation showing, not as herding dogs. These types have proved to be highly trainable, gentle, loyal, and well suited as pets.  

 Their gentleness and devotion also make them quite compatible with children. They are often more suitable as companions than as watch dogs, though the individual personalities of these dogs vary.   

The temperament of these breeds has featured in literature, film and popular television programmes. The novels of Albert Payson Terhune celebrated the temperament and companionship of collies and were very popular in the United States during the 1920s and 1930s.  

 More famously, the temperament and intelligence of the Rough Collie was exaggerated to mythic proportions in the character Lassie which has been the subject of many films, books and television shows from 1938 to the present.		 	      

	      The chamois is a large sized mountain goat, native to the European mountains. Today, the range of the chamois includes Romania, Italy, Switzerland, Austria and parts of Turkey. The chamois has also been introduced to the mountainous regions of New Zealand's South Island.  

The chamois is a member of the Bovidae family of animals which includes sheep goats and even antelope. The average sized adult chamois stands at around 75cm high and weighs roughly 50 kg. The chamois is a relatively stocky looking animal, especially when compared to the average farmyard goat.  

The chamois has short horns, that curve backwards on both the male chamois and the female chamois. The fur of the chamois is thick to keep it warm in the alpine winters, and turns from a deep brown colour in the summer to a grey colour in the winter. The chamois also has a white coloured face with black markings below the eyes. The chamois has a black stripe that runs along it's back from neck to rump.  

The male chamois is generally a very solitary animal, as the male chamois spends most of the year grazing alone and meets with female chamois during the mating season. The female chamois however, live in herds with other females and their young. This safety in numbers approach helps the female chamois and the offspring to protect one another.  

As with other animals of the same group, such as sheep and goats, the chamois is a herbivorous animal feeding on a purely plant based diet. The chamois spends it time grazing on the alpine meadows and munching leaves from the shrubs and bushes.  

In it's natural European habitat, the chamois has a number of predators including wolves, foxes and wildcats. Over the years, the human has been one of the biggest predators of the chamois as they are hunted for their meat. Before human settlers moved into the European mountains, the chamois would have also had much larger predators such as bears and leopards but both are nearly (if not) extinct in Europe today. There are no natural predators of the chamois in it's introduced environment in New Zealand.  

The mating season of the chamois occurs in the late winter to early spring. After a gestation period of between 5 and 6 months, the female chamois will give birth to a single chamois baby known as a chamois calf. Although the chamois has been known to give birth to twins, it is very rare. The mother chamois nurses her calf, feeding it milk until it is able to graze. The chamois calf is more independent at 6 months of age but the chamois calf tends to stay with it's mother until it is at least a year old. Generally, the chamois lives to between 18 and 22 years.  

Despite the fact that the chamois is not considered to be an endangered animal, or even an animal that is under threat from extinction, European laws prohibits the hunting of the chamois in order to try and conserve native mountainous animal species.		 	      

	      The term common dolphin tends to refer to the short-beaked common dolphin and the long-beaked common dolphin that are found in warmer seas worldwide.  

The common dolphin is generally found around the Mediterranean Sea but are also commonly seen in deep off-shore waters and to a lesser extent over continental shelves that are preferred to shallower waters. Some populations of dolphin may be present all year round, others appear to move in a migratory pattern.  

Common dolphins travel in groups of around 10-50 in number and frequently gather into schools numbering 100 to 2000 individuals. These schools are generally very active socially with groups often surfacing, jumping and splashing together. Typical dolphin behaviour includes breaching, tail-slapping, chin-slapping, bow-riding and porpoising.  

Common dolphins are among the fastest swimming marine mammals, with some possibly reaching speeds of over 40 km/h. Dolphins have been known to use both their speed and large group sizes to develop different ways of hunting prey.		 	      

	      The butterfly can be found in most countries in the world, but there tend to be more butterflies in warmer climates. The butterfly is a type of insect that feeds on flower nectar through its long and curled straw-like tongue.  

Butterflies are similar in appearance and tendencies to moths, with many species of butterfly often getting confused as a moth and moths with butterflies. In general the butterfly species tend to be more brightly coloured than the moth species, but there are exceptions.  

The butterfly's most reputable characteristic is the fact that there is an incredible morphing process, during the life cycle of the butterfly. The butterfly starts life as a caterpillar, which cocoons itself in a silky thread. The caterpillar emerges from it's time in the pod, with colourful wings.  

The butterflies in the tropical rain forests of the southern hemisphere, can get to incredible sizes, with the wings of these butterflies displaying some of the brightest colours in the natural world.   

It has been estimated that there are between 15,000 and 20,000 different species of butterfly in the world as more are constantly being discovered particularly in dense jungle regions that have little contact with humans. The different species of butterfly vary in size and colour as well as the differences in the bright patterns that are displayed on the wings of the butterfly.  

Butterflies are herbivorous animals as butterflies are known to only eat plant matter with a high sugar content. Butterflies fly between the flowers drinking the nectar through their long tongue which acts as a straw. Whilst doing this, the butterfly transfers pollen between the plants, meaning that the butterfly plays a vital role in the pollination of plants around the world.  

Due to their small size and colourful wings, butterflies are preyed upon by a number of animals around the world. The main predators of the butterfly include amphibians such as frogs and newts, small reptiles such as lizards and mammals including bats.  

Butterflies reproduce by the male butterfly inserting his sperm into the pouch of the female butterfly. When the female butterfly is ready to lay her eggs, she performs a kind of self-fertilisation process as when the female releases an egg, it passes the pouch that contains the sperm of the male butterfly and is fertilised.  

Female butterflies lay around 100 eggs at a time, with some species of butterfly laying their eggs in a cluster (all at one time) and other species of butterfly lay there eggs individually onto numerous different plants. The egg soon hatches as larvae which develops into a caterpillar and then into a butterfly.  

Butterflies have intrigued and been of one of natures wonders due to their gentle nature and bright colours. Butterflies are commonly used in art and literature around the world and across numerous different cultures.		 	      

	      The chinstrap penguin is a small species of penguin which is found in habiting the rocky land and islands of the Antarctic Ocean. The chinstrap penguins name derives from the narrow black band under their heads.  

Chinstrap penguins are one of the most easily identifiable of all of the penguin species, mainly due to the marking on their chins. Chinstrap penguins are also known to congregate together in their millions on small Antarctic islands. There are believed to be more than 7 million breeding pairs of chinstrap penguins.  

Chinstrap penguins spend their lives hunting for krill and small fish and crustaceans in the surrounding waters, coming onto land to breed, rest and to escape the large ocean predators.  

Chinstrap penguins are carnivorous birds, and catch numerous species of fish,, crabs, shrimp, squid and krill in their strong beaks. Parents hunt for food in the ocean to take back to their chicks on the land.  

Due to the fact that there are few large animals inhabiting the frozen South Pole, the chinstrap penguin has few natural predators. Leopard seals, killer whales and the occasional passing shark are the main predators of the chinstrap penguin.  

Female chinstrap penguins lay 2 eggs in a nest made out of stones on one of the rocky Antarctic islands, in November or December. The male chinstrap penguin and the female chinstrap penguin both take it in turns to keep the eggs warm, with the eggs hatching after about a month. The chicks stay in the nest until they are about a month old and are fed by both the female chinstrap penguin and the male chinstrap penguin.		 	      

	      The chinook is described as calm, non-aggressive and friendly, though sometimes reserved with strangers. They are inherently gentle with children.		 	      

	      Donkeys were supposedly domesticated around 5000 years ago in the north east of Africa from the Somali wild ass. The domestication if donkeys soon spread across the globe, with people mainly using the donkeys to help carry heavy loads and transport goods long distances. They are anatomically normal and show normal breeding behavior, so hybrids should be gelded as early as possible to avoid studdy behavior.  

The majority of donkeys today still do the same burdening tasks that the donkeys did thousands of years ago, in a similar way to the pack-mules in the Asian mountains that transport burdening goods through the mountain passes.  

Despite the obvious similarities between a donkey and a horse, a donkey-horse offspring (mule) will always be infertile, due to a genetic malfunction that occurs when two different species mate. This is also the case when different species of asses interbreed, such as the onager and the Somali wild ass. Even though they are in the same genus taxonomically, the hybrid offspring of two species of ass will have sterile offspring.  

Wild donkeys have adapted to living in near desert environments and because of this, donkeys have very hardy immune and digestive systems. This allows the donkey to be able to process and gain nutrition from vegetation  that many other species of animal have great difficulty gaining any nutrition from.  

There are thought to be more than 44 million donkeys found throughout the world, with around 11 million of these donkeys found in China. Scientists believe that the real number of donkeys could be much higher than this as many donkeys go unaccounted for.  

Donkeys are said to have a relatively stubborn temperament but once the owner of the donkey has gained the donkeys trust, the donkey is extremely loyal and a good friend. Donkeys are not truly stubborn; they are very good at taking care of themselves.  Their self preservation instincts are strong.  They will refuse to proceed if they sense danger or if they are overburdened. They pass this valuable trait on to the mule. Donkeys are also thought to have a calming affect over distressed horses and donkeys are often put into fields with horses as they make great companions for them. 
		 	      

	      The Cottontop tamarin is a small species of monkey found in the forests of South America. The Cottontop tamarin was named because of it's elegant white fur that flows over it's head and shoulders.  

The cottontop tamarin is found in tropical forest edges and secondary forests from Costa Rica to north western Columbia where the cottontop tamarin spends the majority of it's life in the trees.  

Cottontop tamarins are among the smallest of the primates with a body length of 17 cm and tail length of 25 cm. The forelimbs of the cottontop tamarin are shorter than the hind limbs, and unlike other monkeys the thumb of the cottontop tamarin is not opposable and it does not have a prehensile tail.   

The cottontop tamarin is a diurnal primate which means that the cottontop tamarin is most active during the day and rests in the safety of the tree tops during the night. cottontop tamarins are very sociable animals and inhabit their territory with their rest of the cottontop tamarin troop which generally have between 2 and 14 members. Cottontop tamarin troops are led by the eldest female and have predominantly male members.  

The cottontop tamarin is an omnivorous animal meaning that the cottontop tamarin hunts both plants and other animals in order to survive. Fruits, insects and green plants make up the majority of the cottontop tamarin's diet along with small rodents and reptiles, eggs and tree sap.  

Due to the relatively small size of the cottontop tamarin, it has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Wild cats, dogs, snakes and birds of prey are primary predators of the cottontop tamarin, along with humans who are destroying their natural habitat.  

The cottontop tamarin usually breeds between the months of April and July, when the female cottontop tamarin will give birth to twins (or a single infant) after a four to five month gestation period. The male cottontop tamarins carry and groom infants more than the females do, but females clean the infant more than the males do. Older siblings are also known to contribute to infant care, although infants prefer to be carried by their parents than by their siblings. Infant cottontop tamarins become mobile at 2 to 5 weeks, and begin eating solid food at 4 to 7 weeks. They are independent at 10 to 18 weeks and are fully weaned at 15 to 25 weeks. Sexual maturity is attained at about 2 years of age.  

Today, the cottontop tamarin is considered to be a critically endangered species with an estimated wild cottontop tamarin population of just 6,000. The main reason for the severe decline in the cottontop tamarin population is that they have lost more than 75% of their natural habitat to deforestation.
		 	      

	      The Deutsche Bracke is a small hound, 40 - 53 cm (16 - 21 ins) at the withers, with long drop ears and a long narrow tail. It is distinguished by a long, somewhat narrow head, and a rectangular body, described as \"elegant\".
		 	      

	      The desert tortoise is a medium-sized species of tortoise that is found in the south-western desert regions of Northern America, and parts of northern Mexico. The desert tortoise is most commonly known for its high, patterned shell and the fact that is lives in burrows underground.  

The desert tortoise is found inhabiting the vast sandy plains and rocky foothills that are in and surround both the Mojave and Sonoran deserts. When temperatures get too high for the desert tortoise it simply digs itself a burrow into the sand where it can remain cool until the heat dies down.  

The desert tortoise has a number of biological adaptations that enable the desert tortoise to survive more successfully in such arid conditions. The front legs of the desert tortoise are heavy and flattened in shape. This complete with a set of claw-like scale means that the desert tortoise is an effective digger  

As with other tortoise species, the desert tortoise is a herbivorous animal surviving only on organic plant matter. Grasses make up the majority of the desert tortoise's diet along with herbs, wild flowers and the rare fruits and berries that can be found.  

Due to its small size, the desert tortoise has a surprising number of natural predators even despite its hard outer shell. Coyotes, feral cats, reptiles and birds of prey are the main predators of the desert tortoise along with the gila monster.  

The average desert tortoise breeds twice a year, in the spring and again in the autumn. The female desert tortoise lays around 6 or 7 eggs although clutch sizes can be bigger or smaller. The ping-pong ball sized eggs of the desert tortoise usually hatch within a couple of months. 		 	      

	      The crab-eating macaque is a medium species of monkey, found in the tropical and sub-tropical forests and jungles throughout South-East Asia. The crab-eating macaque differs from other macaque species in the fact that the crab-eating macaque has a long tail which is about the same length as it's body.  

The crab-eating macaque is widely dispersed across the South-East Asian jungles and are found in a variety of different habitats. The crab-eating macaque generally settles in areas that are close to water over a wide range of habitats including lowland forests, tropical jungles and mangroves.  

The crab-eating macaque is a highly sociable animal and lives in groups containing between 5 and 60 crab-eating macaque individuals. The crab-eating macaque troops are centred around the female crab-eating macaques are they remain in the same place for their whole lives. There are often half as many males in a crab-eating macaque troop than there are females.   

The crab-eating macaque is an arboreal primate meaning that it spends most of its life in the safety of the trees. The crab-eating macaque has a long tail which helps it to balance and sharp nails and its fingers to toes which help with grip.  

Despite its name, the crab-eating macaque does not only eat crabs and in fact at least 50% of the crab-eating macaque's diet is made up from fruits, nuts and seeds. The crab-eating macaque also eats insects, small reptiles, amphibians, fish and crustaceans.  

The crab-eating macaque is relatively small in size and therefore has a number of predators within its natural environment. Tigers and large reptiles such as snakes and crocodiles are the main predators of the crab-eating macaque along with large birds of prey like eagles who prey on the smaller crab-eating macaque individuals.   

After a gestation period of around six months, the female crab-eating macaque gives birth to a single infant (baby) crab-eating macaque. Male crab-eating macaque babies remain with their mothers until they are a couple of years old and are independent enough to find another troop, but the crab-eating macaque babies tend to remain in the troop for their whole lives.  

Although the crab-eating macaque is not considered to be a animal under threat at this time, habitat loss in the form of pollution but primarily deforestation is causing sever declines in the crab-eating macaque population numbers.		 	      

	      It may shock you to know that the hole-filled rock like substance, known as coral, is actually an animal and a vital part of the marine world. Coral is a similar animal species to the sea anemone and almost appears to be half animal and half plant when you look into what coral does.  

There are thought to be around 70,000 different species of coral that are found throughout the oceans of the world but are in abundance in the southern hemisphere due to the warm and tropical climates.  

Coral species are generally divided into two subspecies, depending on how many tentacles the coral individual has. Those coral species with eight tentacles are known as Alcyonaria, which includes soft coral, sea fans and sea pens. Those coral species with more than eight tentacles are known as Zoantharia, which includes the coral species that are found in coral reefs.  

The coral catches small fish and animals such as plankton using stinging cells on their tentacles, although these animals obtain most of their nutrients from algae. This means that most corals depend on sunlight and grow in clear and shallow water, typically at depths shallower than 60 m (200 ft). There are however a number of coral species that have adapted to inhabiting the oceans at depths of up to 3000 m.  

Corals can live from 3 months to 30 years depending on the individual coral species and the role it plays within the eco-system. For example, those coral species that make up the extensive coral reefs (like the Great Barrier Reef in Australia that stretches for over 1,600 miles in length) tend to live alot longer than those species which are found on their own, like the softer corals.  

Coral reefs in particular play an enormous part on maintaining such a high diversity of life in the worlds oceans as they not only provide excellent places for marine animals to hide from oncoming predators, but also act as a meeting and breeding ground for literally thousands of species of animals, particularly fish.  

It has been predicted by scientists that over 50% of the worlds coral formations will have disappeared by the year 2030, and surprisingly not just due to growing human activity such as fishing and diving. Natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis can have a devastating effect on the coral in that area. The 2004 tsunami in south east Asia completely obliterated everything in its path, destroyed hundreds of ancient coral reefs in these tropical waters.  

Many species of coral, such as the staghorn coral (a hard species of coral that branches out to look like deer antlers), are today classed as an endangered species due to the severe decrease in the corals range.  		 	      

	       Today the Chow Chow is most commonly kept as a companion dog. Its keen sense of proprietorship over its home paired with a sometimes disconcertingly serious approach to strangers can be off-putting to those unfamiliar with the breed.  

 However, displays of timidity and aggression are uncharacteristic of well-bred and well-socialized specimens. Inexperienced dog owners should beware of how dogs of this breed encounter those it perceives as strangers, their notoriety is so established that many homeowners insurance companies will not cover dogs from this breed.   

The proper Chow owner will be just as willful and stubborn as the Chow they keep, thus weaker-willed individuals would be best served to evaluate their commitment in controlling an animal who is happy to take over any household. Specimens of opposite sex typically co-habitate with less tension than those of the same sex, but it is not unheard of for multiple chows of both sexes to live together peacefully in a home setting.  

 The Chow is extremely loyal to its own family and will bond tightly to its master. The Chow typically shows affection only with those it has bonds to, so new visitors to the home should not press their physical attention upon the resident Chow as it will not immediately accept strangers in the same manner as it does members of its own pack.		 	      

	      Every living organism needs to find some way of nourishing itself, and animals are no exception. The exact diet of different animal species is extremely dependant on the animal and the area in which it lives.   
 
Animals must eat other living organisms in order to survive including both plants and other animals, as well as having access to water. Animals have adapted to their surroundings and so will make the most of what is there. Camels for example, inhabit dry and baron deserts where there is little water, so they have evolved the ability to store large amounts of water in their bodies.   

Although the exact diets of individual animal species are very varied, the diet of animals is usually split into three groups, which are herbivores, omnivores and carnivores.  

      

    

Typically food chains start with a plant which is known as the producer. The producer in a food chain gains the energy it needs from the sun and is the only link in the food chain which does not consume organic matter. The producer is consumed by a herbivore known as a primary consumer, which is then consumed by the secondary consumer, generally a small, omnivorous animal. The tertiary consumer, usually a smaller carnivore, then eats the small omnivorous mammal. The tertiary consumer is also sometimes eaten by a larger carnivore which would be the quaternary consumer.  

Food chains differ from one another all over the world, and are largely dependent on the habitat and the species which live there. Food chains for marine species work in the same way, although the producers in marine food chains are usually small aquatic plants and phytoplankton.  

   	      

	      Dogs are thought to have been first domesticated in East Asia thousands of years ago. People primarily used dogs for guarding the hunters and areas of land.  

Todays domestic dog is actually a subspecies of the gray wolf, a type of dog that is feared by most humans. Many people today, in all countries around the world, keep dogs as household pets and many even regard their dog as a family member.  

There are currently around 800 different species of domestic dog worldwide. Included are mountain dogs such as Saint Bernards or Huskys and territorial guard dogs like the Neapolitan and Tibetan Mastiffs.
  
 Dog Foot Facts 

Dogs have soft pads on the bottom of their feet which help them to run quickly and quietly
Dogs have sharp, strong claws on their feet which allow them to grip when running and also helps them to dig.
Some dog species have dew claws on the sides of their feet which help the dog to balance when running, like the baby toes on humans.
The dew claws on a dog never really touch the ground but are often used to help the dog to lightly grip their prey.
The paws of a dog are around half the size of the paws of the wolf, as the dog is generally not as powerful as the wolf.

  
 Dog Teeth Facts 

Dogs have highly specialised teeth which allows them to both bite and tear meat apart.
The teeth of the dog are small than those of their wolf relatives as the dog has no need to be able to catch and kill such large prey.
The tongue of the dog is vital in heat regulation as moisture on the tongue cools instantly and the cooler air is then passed into the respiratory system.
Puppys have around 28 teeth but the average adult dog has 42 teeth which include 12 incisors, 4 canines, 16 premolars and 10 molars.
When a puppy is about four months old, they shed their baby teeth and grow their permanent adult teeth which are much stronger.

		 	      

	      The dragonfly is large predatory insect generally found around watery areas in both the North and South Hemispheres. The dragonfly is very similar to a damselfly but the wings on the adults are considerably different.  

The dragonfly is found hovering near lakes and swamps as the dragonfly larvae (the nymph/baby) is aquatic. The dragonfly nymph is capable of producing a painful bite for humans, where the adult dragonfly poses no threat.  

The dragonfly is best known for its beautiful colours and the way it's body and wings sparkle when the dragonfly is flying around the water.   

Dragonflies have long, thin and generally colourful bodies, large eyes and two pairs of transparent wings. As with other species of insect, the dragonfly also has six legs but it is unable to walk on solid ground. In flight the adult dragonfly can propel itself in six directions which are upward, downward, forward, back, and side to side.  

Both the dragonfly and it's larvae are carnivorous animals and they feed exclusively on other small animals. The main prey of the dragonfly are mosquitoes, flies, bees and other small invertebrates. The dragonfly larvae feeds mainly on aquatic insects and their eggs.  

The dragonfly is preyed upon by a number of predators around the world including birds, fish and reptiles such as lizards. The dragonfly is also commonly eaten by amphibians such as toads, frogs and large newts.  

Female dragonflies lay their eggs in or near water, often on floating or emergent plants. The dragonfly eggs then hatch into nymphs. which is how most of the dragonfly's life is spent. The dragonfly nymphs live beneath the water's surface, using extendible jaws to catch other invertebrates or even vertebrates such as tadpoles and fish.   

The larval stage of large dragonflies may last as long as five years. In smaller species, this stage may last between two months and three years. When the larva is ready to metamorphose into an adult, it climbs up a reed or other emergent plant. Exposure to air causes the larva to begin breathing. The skin splits at a weak spot behind the head and the adult dragonfly crawls out of its old larval skin, pumps up its wings, and flies off to feed on midges and flies.		 	      

	      The common loon (also known as the Great Northern Diver) is a species of bird that is most closely related to the duck, mainly due to the ability of the common loon to dive underwater in order to hunt for food.  

The common loon is found in parts of Canada, Alaska, Greenland, Iceland and Scotland, but common loon have recently been found in other watery parts across Europe and North America.  

The common loon, like all divers, is a specialist fish-eater, as the common loon catches its prey underwater. The common loon has been seen diving as deep as 200 feet (60 m) to get its lunch. The common loon that have a very freshwater diet mainly eat pike, perch, sunfish, trout, and bass. The common loon that have a more salt-water diet feed on rock fish, flounder, sea trout, and herring.  

The common loon needs a long distance to gain momentum for take-off, and is ungainly on landing. Its clumsiness on land is due to the legs being positioned at the rear of the body of the common loon which is ideal for diving but is not well-suited for assistance the common loon with walking. When the birds land on water, they skim along on their bellies to slow down, rather than on their feet, as the feet of a common loon are set too far back.  

The common loon can swim gracefully on the surface of the water, and the common loon dives as well as any flying bird. The common loon is also able to fly well for hundreds of kilometers when these birds migrate.  

The common loon has almost completely disappeared from the waters of eastern North America, mainly due to pollution in the water and excess pollutants causing acid rain to occur. 		 	      

	      Cheetah Classification and Evolution
The Cheetah is a large and powerful feline that was once found throughout Africa and Asia and even in parts of Europe. Today however, it is found in only a few remote regions of it's once vast natural range, primarily due to growing Human settlements and the hunting of them for their fur. There are widely considered to be five different subspecies of Cheetah that vary only very slightly in colouration and are most easily distinguished by their geographic location. Although they are not considered to be part of the 'big cat' family as they cannot roar, Cheetahs are one of Africa's most powerful predators and are most renowned for their immense speed when in a chase. Capable of reaching speeds of more than 60mph for short periods of time, the Cheetah is the fastest land mammal in the world.  
Cheetah Anatomy and Appearance
The Cheetah has a long and slender body that is covered in coarse yellowish fur and dotted with small black spots. It's long tail helps with balance and changing direction quickly and unlike the rest of the Cheetah's body, there are ringed markings along the tail which ends in a black tip. Cheetahs have small heads with high set eyes that aid them when surveying the surrounding grasslands for potential prey. They also have distinctive black "tear marks" that run from the inner eye, along their nose and down to the outside of their mouths, which are thought to help protect them from being blinded by the bright sun. The exceptional speed of the Cheetah is caused by a number of things including having strong and powerful hind legs, and an incredibly flexible and muscular spine which allows the Cheetah to not only sprint quickly but also makes them very agile. They also have non-retractable claws which dig into the ground, giving the Cheetah better grip at high speed.  
Cheetah Distribution and Habitat
The Cheetah once had a vast historical range that stretched across a number of continents, but their distribution today is much more scattered with a small number found in Iran and the majority found in sub-Saharan Africa. Although Cheetahs are still found in a few different parts of eastern and southern Africa, the highest population of wild Cheetahs is now found in Namibia in south-western Africa. Cheetahs are most commonly found stalking prey on the vast, open grasslands but they are also found in a variety of other habitats as well including deserts, dense vegetation and mountainous terrain, providing that there are both adequate supplies of food and water. Cheetahs are one of Africa's most vulnerable felines with population numbers being mainly affected by growing Human settlements that encroach on their native habitats.  
Cheetah Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Cheetah is unique amongst Africa's felines primarily because they are most active during the day, which avoids competition for food from other large predators like Lions and Hyenas that hunt during the cooler night. They are also one of the more sociable Cat species with males often roaming in small groups, generally with their siblings, and oddly enough, it is the females that are more solitary animals apart from the 18 months or so that they spend looking after their cubs. Cheetahs are fiercely territorial animals that patrol large home ranges and often overlap those of other Cheetahs, and indeed Lions, with females tending to roam across a much larger range than males. They are typically shy and very stealthy animals so that they are able to hunt for prey in the hot daylight hours without being spotted so easily.  
Cheetah Reproduction and Life Cycles
After a gestation period that lasts for around 3 months, the female Cheetah gives birth to between two and five cubs that are born blind and incredibly vulnerable in the African wilderness. The cubs suckle from their mother for the first few months when they begin eating meat, and start to accompany her on hunting trips as they are able to learn how to hunt from watching her. Cheetah cubs learn the majority of their hunting techniques through playing with their siblings, and remain with their mother until they can hunt successfully and leave to find their own territory at between 18 months and 2 years old. Sadly, one of the main reasons for such drastic declines in Cheetah numbers is that up to 75% of Cheetah cubs don't live to be older than 3 months, as their mother has to leave them everyday to find food to feed them, leaving the vulnerable cubs helpless in the face of predators.   
Cheetah Diet and Prey
The Cheetah has exceptional eyesight and so hunts using sight by first stalking it's prey (from between 10 to 30 meters away), and then chasing it when the time is right. Cheetahs often kill their prey in vast open spaces but tend to drag it into a hiding place to prevent it from being scavenged by other animals. The Cheetah has to do this as it cannot eat it's prey straight away, due to the fact that they are immensely hot after the chase and need time to cool down before they can feast. Cheetahs are carnivorous animals meaning that they only hunt and kill other animals in order to get the nutrition that they need to survive. They mainly hunt large herbivores including Gazelle and a number of large Antelope species such as Wildebeest, along with Zebras and smaller mammals like Hares. The exact diet of the Cheetah though tends to depend on it's location.  
Cheetah Predators and Threats
The adult Cheetah is a dominant predator in it's environment and is therefore not seen as prey (more as competition) by other large predators. The Cheetah cubs however, are incredibly vulnerable particularly when their mother is off hunting, and are preyed upon by a number of animals including Lions and Hyenas, but also large avian species such as Eagles and Vultures. The biggest threat to Cheetahs is people, who have not only taken vast areas of it's natural habitat for themselves, but have also turned large regions of land into National Parks. Although these areas seem to be showing increases in both Lion and Hyena populations, Cheetah numbers are much lower as there is more competition for food with the increasing numbers of these other large predators.  
Cheetah Interesting Facts and Features
One of the most distinctive differences between the different subspecies is that their fur colour changes slightly, depending on their surrounding environment. Those Cheetahs found in the more arid desert regions tend to be lighter and have smaller spots than the King Cheetahs that roam the south African grasslands, and are darker, slightly bigger and have larger spots. Although Cheetahs cannot roar, they do make a variety of different sounds including a high-pitched yelp which can be heard for more than a mile away. The Cheetah is one of the most distinctive of the world's felines and although it is fairly commonly confused with the Leopard, it's name is thought to have come from the Hindu word 'chita' which means the 'spotted one'.  
Cheetah Relationship with Humans
Despite their fierce appearance, Cheetahs have actually been domesticated by local people for thousands of years, as they were used to help with hunting for food for the villagers. They have also been kept in captivity for a long time, but as they do not seem to produce particularly healthy individuals, wild Cheetahs were regularly caught to restore the bloodline. Hunted by people as trophies throughout much of their natural range, Cheetahs have completely disappeared from numerous places and along with habitat loss to growing Human settlements and the clearing of land for agriculture, Cheetah numbers are still declining rapidly in many areas today.   
Cheetah Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Cheetah has been listed by the IUCN as a species that is Vulnerable from extinction in it's natural environment in the near future. Habitat loss along with the increase of natural parks that are home to a large number of competing predators has led to drastic declines in the world's Cheetah population. There are now estimated to be between 7,000 and 10,000 individuals left in the wild, along with a growing number being found in zoos and animal institutes all over the world. 
		 	      

	      The coati is a medium-sized mammal only found on the American continent. The coati is found widely distributed across North, Central and South in a number of different habitats.  

The coati is primarily found in dense forests and wet jungles as the coati will spend a great deal of it's life in the safety of the trees. However, there are also coati populations inhabiting grasslands, mountains and even deserts across the continent.  

There are four different species of coati, two of which, the Ring-tailed Coati and the Mountain Coati, are found in South America, and the remaining two coati species, the White-nosed Coati and the Cozumel Island Coati, are both found in Mexico.  

The Ring-tailed Coati is found in the jungles and rainforests of South America, where it lives both on the ground and in the trees. The Ring-tailed Coati has thick, tan coloured fur and black bands running along it's tail.  

The Mountain Coati is found inhabiting areas of the Andes Mountain range in western South America. The Mountain Coati is also the smallest species of coati and is sometimes called the Dwarf Coati.  

The White-nosed Coati found in parts of North America and throughout Central America, including Mexico. The White-nosed Coati is the largest species of coati with some individuals growing to nearly 120 cm in length.  

The Cozumel Island Coati is found only on the Mexican island of Cozumel, and is thought to have been taken there by the Mayans. Despite the obvious similarities between the Cozumel Island Coati and the White-nosed Coati, the Cozumel Island Coati is considered to be a separate species.  

Female coatis live in groups of between 10 and 30 individuals, known as a band. The male coati is a solitary animal and only comes together with the females to mate.  

The coati is a nocturnal and omnivorous animal, meaning that the coati eats both plants and animals during the darkness of night. The coati eats a variety of different fruits, nuts and seeds, along with insects, birds eggs, rodents and small reptiles such as lizards and snakes.  

Due to the generally small size of the coati, the coati has numerous predators within its natural environment. Jaguars and pumas, along with other large wildcats, are the main predators of the coati, along with birds of prey, snakes and crocodiles.  

The coati breeds at the start of the rainy season which occurs at different times of the year, depending on the region, when there is an abundance of food. The female coati leaves the band of coatis and builds a nest in the trees or on a rocky ledge, where she gives birth to between 2 and 7 coati babies after a gestation period of nearly 3 months. The baby coatis rejoin the band of coatis with their mother, when they are about 6 weeks old.		 	      

	      The earwig is a small sized insect that is found in a variety of habitats around the world. There are nearly 2,000 different species of earwig that are found throughout the American, Australian and Eurasian continents.  

The earwig has a small body size, that is split into three parts in a similar way to numerous other insect species. The earwig has sharp pincers on its abdomen and large wings that generally remain concealed against the body of the earwig. Although earwigs are able to fly, they often don't.  

Earwigs are nocturnal animals that often hide in small, moist crevices during the day, and are active at night. Damage to foliage, flowers, and various crops are commonly blamed on earwigs but they also eat certain insects that damage them.  

The earwig is thought to get its name from people fearing that earwigs crawled into your ear to lay their eggs. Although this is not the sole intention of the earwig, it is certainly thought to be possible as they like narrow, warm spaces such as the ear canal.  

The earwig is an omnivorous animal meaning that earwigs will eat almost anything they can find. Earwigs spend most of their time feeding on a wide variety of other insects and plants including flowers, fruits and leaves.  

Due to their small size, earwigs have a number of natural predators wherever they live in the world. Amphibians such as frogs, newts and toads are among the most common predators of the earwig along with birds and other larger insects such as beetles.  

Female earwigs lay up to 80 small eggs which hatch within a couple of weeks. Female earwigs are known to be extremely protective of their young, often watching over them until they have reached their second moult (earwigs moult 5 time over the course of their lifetime).		 	      

	       Chihuahuas are prized for their devotion, ferocity, and personality. Their curious personality and small size make them easily adaptable to a variety of environments, including the city and small apartments. Chihuahuas are often stereotyped as high-strung, though it has been shown that correct training and socialization can result in an outstanding companion animal.  

 They can also be quite affectionate with their owners. Very quick to learn commands, the clever Chihuahua is easily trained to perform tricks.

One unique trait in most chihuahuas is the tendency to burrow into blankets or clothing in order to sleep. This can prove a danger if a person sits on a bed or sofa without checking for sleeping dogs. This behavior is attributed to the belief that pre-domesticated chihuahuas lived in underground burrows.  

Chihuahuas are not well-suited as small children's pets because of their size, temperament, and tendency to bite when frightened. It is recommended that children be school aged or older before adding a Chihuahua to ones home.  

 Also, many Chihuahuas focus their devotion on one person, becoming overly jealous of that persons human relationships. This can be mitigated through socialization. Chihuahuas also tend to have a clannish nature, often preferring the companionship of other Chihuahuas over other dogs.		 	      

	      The clown fish (also known as the anemonefish) is a small species of fish that is found around tropical coral reefs. The most commonly known species of clown fish is orange with white markings but clown fish can be found in many different colours and can also differ in shape.  

There are 28 recognised species of clown fish that are found in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The clown fish is also found as far north as the Red Sea and inhabits the Great Barrier Reef, on the Australian east coast.  

The clown fish was made most famous from the popular children's film  Finding Nemo . Aquatic stores and clown fish breeders reported a significant increase in the popularity of the clown fish although many people did not realise the work that goes into keeping marine fish so sadly, the majority of clown fish bought at the time quickly died.   

The clown fish is also famous for it's seeming immunity to the stings of the sea anemone. Most clown fish are found either in or around sea anemones which the clown fish inhabits both for protection from predators but also the readiness of food.  

Clown fish inhabit a single sea anemone in groups that include the breeding male and female and a number of younger male clown fish. All clown fish are born male and develop female reproductive organs when needed. When the female in the sea anemone group dies, the dominant male becomes female and breeds with one the males that is inhabiting the same sea anemone.  

Female clown fish lay their eggs on a flat surface close to the sea anemone which they inhabit. The female clown fish can lay hundreds or thousands of eggs at one time depending on the species. Clown fish lay their eggs around the same time as a full moon and the male clown fish guards the eggs until they hatch just over a week later.   

Clown fish are omnivorous animals meaning that they eat both plants and animals. Clown fish eat a wide range of food such as algae, plankton, molluscs and small crustaceans. The diet of the clown fish is however largely dependent on the species of clown fish and what food is available in the area which they inhabit.  

Due to their small size, clown fish are preyed upon by a number of predators but can be difficult to catch are they often retreat into the safety of the sea anemone. Large species of fish, sharks and eels are the main predators of the clown fish in the water but the human is the biggest overall threat to the clown fish as they are caught to keep in tanks and aquariums.  

Despite the rising levels of pollution in the world's oceans and destruction of the habitats on the ocean floor, clown fish are not considered to be a threatened species of animal mainly because they lay so many eggs at a time. Even though not all of the clown fish eggs will hatch, a vast number of clown fish fry hatch in every spawn meaning that clown fish numbers remain high in the wild.		 	      

	      The dhole (also known as the Asiatic Wild Dog, Indian Wild Dog and the Red Dog) is an endangered wild dog native to the jungles of Asia. Although the dhole is very similar in appearance to the African Wild dog and the Bush dog, the dhole is the only member of it's genus.  

Historically, the dhole was found though East and Southern Asia, from the Russian far east right down to Sumatra, and although today the range of the dhole has been significantly reduced, the dhole inhabits a wide variety of habitats including thick, deciduous woodlands to jungles and tropical rainforests.  

There are three different species of dhole that are very similar in characteristics and only really differ in location and fur colour. Although a dominant predator within their environment, the dhole populations have been heavily affected by disease introduced by domesticated animals such as cats and dogs.  

Like other medium-sized canines, the dhole is a highly sociable animal that spends it's life as part of a pack. The dhole is well-known for the vocal calls that it uses to communicate with it's pack. It is said that the repetitive whistles of the dhole are so distinctive that individuals animals can be easily identified by their calls.  

The dhole is a carnivorous and fairly dominant predator within it's natural environment, working as part of a pack to try and bring down larger prey to feed the whole group. The majority of the dhole's diet however is made of smaller animals including lizards, frogs and rodents.  

Due to the dominant nature of the dhole and the fact that it often has protection from it's pack, there are few animals that are of any threat to the dhole in the wild. Large wild cats such as tigers and leopards are the only natural predators of the dhole, as the biggest threat to the world's dhole populations has been from humans.  

After breeding, female dholes give birth to between 5 and 12 pups after a two month long gestation period. Dhole pups grow rapidly and are cared for by both their parents, and by other adult dholes in the pack. The dhole pups begin to hunt when they are a few months old and reach adult size by the time they are about a year and a half old.  

Today, the dhole is endangered in the wild as populations have been reduced to less than 2,000 individuals across their native territories. The main reason for the severe decline in the dhole population numbers is thought to be through habitat loss and hunting from humans.
		 	      

	      The chameleon is a very distinctive and well-known species of lizard, due to the large eyes and curled tail of the chameleon. Chameleons are found throughout jungle and desert alike, in Africa, Asia and parts of Southern Europe and chameleons have also been introduced to parts of North America.   

There are thought to be more than 160 different species of chameleon that range from just an inch to more than a couple of feet in size. The tiny pygmy leaf chameleon, found in the jungles of Madagascar, is the smallest species of chameleon with some males measuring less than 3 cm long.   

The largest species of chameleon, the Malagasy giant chameleon, is also natively found in the jungles of Madagascar and can grow to nearly 70 cm in length. Parson's chameleon, also found in Madagascar can grow to around 65 cm in length.  

Some species of chameleon, although not all, are able to change the colour of their skin in order to be camouflaged into their surroundings. These colour changes in the chameleon's skin colour can include colours such as pink, blue, red, orange, green, black, brown, light blue, yellow and turquoise, all so that the chameleon can blend in more easily.  

The chameleon has exceptional eyesight for a reptile as the structure of the chameleon's eye, allows the chameleon to have complete 360 degree vision around it's body. This special adaptation, allows the chameleon to be able to hunt prey and spot predators more effectively.  

The chameleon is generally an omnivorous animal, although some chameleon species are known to have a more carnivorous diet, and other chameleon species prefer to be vegetarians. A chameleon will generally eat anything though including berries, leaves, fruits, insects, worms, snails and some of the larger chameleon species will also hunt small reptiles.  

Due to the generally small size of the chameleon, they are often a prime target for hungry predators (when the chameleon can be seen that is). Other tree dwelling animals such as snakes and birds are the most common predators of the chameleon, along with some mammals.  

In order to bury to her eggs to keep them safe and warm, the female chameleon firsts digs a hole in the forest floor in which to bury them. The hole can be from 10 to 30 cm deep, but the depth of the hole generally depends on the chameleon species.  

The female chameleon then lays a clutch of around 20 eggs, although the exact number of eggs can vary from just one to nearly 100. The chameleon eggs take from 4-12 months to hatch, depending on the chameleon species.  

Today many chameleon species are considered to be threatened with extinction, and other chameleon species are even considered to to endangered. The declining chameleon numbers are most likely due to habitat changes such as pollution and deforestation.		 	      

	      The cockroach, also known as the roach, is found worldwide in every environment and every habitat with the exception of water. The cockroach is one of the most commonly known pests to humans of the insects world but plays a vital role in the ecosystem ingesting decomposing materials.  

There are thought to be around 4,000 known species of cockroach in existence but only about 30 of the different species of cockroach are the ones that humans come into contact with. Cockroaches are generally not keen on close contact with humans and are only really present if there is enough for them to eat.  

The cockroach is dated around 300 million years old, with fossil evidence suggesting that the modern cockroach is much smaller than the original roach. Today the cockroach is on average, about an inch long.  

The cockroach is an omnivorous animals and feeds on decaying matter and therefore is often associated with things being dirty (you would not be happy to find them in a restaurant for example). Most cockroach species are nocturnal with the exception of the oriental cockroach, which is attracted to light. Cockroaches generally only eat organic matter but some have been known to even eat substances such as mouldy wallpaper paste.   

Due to it's small size and abundance, the cockroach is prey to numerous predators around the world including birds, spiders, small mammals and reptiles. The cockroach is even eaten by humans in some cultures and regions of the world.  

Cockroaches are thought to be able to have up to four litters of young every year. The female cockroach lays between 10 and 90 eggs per time, which hatch in a matter of days. It takes just a month for the baby cockroach to become an adult cockroach. Female cockroaches are distinguishable from male cockroaches as the female cockroaches have a more rounded abdomen.  

Unlike most other animals, the brain of the cockroach is in its body instead of its head. This means that a headless cockroach can live for nearly two weeks and will eventually die from malnutrition and not nerve damage. 		 	      

	      Dachshunds are playful, fun dogs, known for their propensity to chase small animals, birds and tennis balls with great determination and ferocity.  

 Many dachshunds are strong-headed or stubborn, making them a challenge to train. Dachshunds may dig holes in the garden. They have a particularly loud bark, making dachshunds good watchdogs.  

 Dachshunds are known for their devotion and loyalty to their owners, though they can be standoffish towards strangers. If left alone many dachshunds will whine until they have companionship.  

 Some dachshunds are prone to separation anxiety and may chew objects in the house to relieve stress.		 	      

	                   	      

	      Deserts are dry, baron landscapes that receive intense sunshine and very little rain. Deserts are also known to be places of extremes from the climate to the life within them. There is a greater range of temperatures throughout the day in the desert, than in any other habitat on Earth ranging from below freezing during the night, to boiling in the middle of the day. There is also less than 250mm of rain to fall in the desert every year.  

There are two main types of desert, which are true deserts (hot deserts), which are found on either side of the tropics and semi-deserts, which are found on every continent often far from the tropical regions. The main difference between a true desert and a semi-desert is that a semi-desert receives at least twice as much rain per year as a true desert.  

The main exception to this is the Gobi desert, which is the largest desert region in Asia. The Gobi deserts stretches across China up to the Siberian Mountains, so the winters in the Gobi desert become very cold. However, there is still little rain as the mountains block the rain-clouds and therefore prevent them from reaching the desert. Wild bactrian camels are known to eat snow in the Gobi desert in order take in water.  

Although deserts are thought to hold very little life, there is in fact a great diversity of both plants animals that inhabit desert regions. Many of the animals that live in the desert have adapted to a nocturnal lifestyle, only coming above ground at night when it is cooler. Reptiles such as snakes and lizards, and small birds are the primary animals found in true deserts. In semi-deserts, where there are more plants there are even mammals such as rodents and meerkats.  

Most of the different animal species that inhabit deserts regions have slowly adapted to their dry and arid lifestyles, and have evolved in certain ways in order for them to take in and use water particles more effectively. A camel, for example, stores huge amounts of water in it's hump so that it can cope in it's dry environment, and the thorny devil found in Australia sucks water through channels in it's body, from it's feet to it's mouth.  

Deserts habitats have been the least affected by the growing human populations, and so they remain relatively untouched. The main destruction of desert habitats comes from the extraction of oil from underneath the sand. Grazing animals such as goats are also known to cause havoc to desert plants, which in turn affects the animals that rely on those plants to survive.
		 	      

	      The cross river gorilla is one of two subspecies of western gorilla (the other being the more numerous western lowland gorilla) found in the jungles on the African continent. The cross river gorilla is now incredibly rare in the wild and there are just a handful of cross river gorilla individuals thought to be in just 11 locations.     

The cross river gorilla is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forests of western and central Africa, along with lowland swamps and secondary forests. The cross river gorilla is generally found on the border between Nigeria and Cameroon, where less than 300 individuals are estimated to be inhabiting the forests.   

There are two separate sub-species of western gorilla which are the western lowland gorilla and the cross river gorilla. Although only slightly different in appearance, the two western gorilla species are distinguished by their differing skull and tooth sizes, and the western lowland gorilla is also more common than the cross river gorilla with nearly 100,000 individuals thought to be left in the wild (it is however still at critically endangered species).  

The cross river gorilla is one of the great apes, a group that includes orang-utans, gorillas, humans and chimpanzees. As with the other great apes, the cross river gorilla has a number of features which makes living in the jungle a bit easier, including having opposable thumbs which come in handy when the cross river gorilla is peeling fruit.  

The cross river gorilla is an omnivorous animal, but the majority of it's diet is made up of eating fruit which the cross river gorilla is known to travel vast distances through the forests to find. The cross river gorilla also eats leaves, nuts and berries, along with insects and occasionally small animals such as lizards and rodents. The cross river gorilla has also been observed using basic tools in the wild in order to more effectively gather food.   

Due to it's large size, the cross river gorilla has few real predators in it's native African forests, with large cats such as leopards and the odd crocodile being the only real natural threat to the cross river gorilla. The biggest threat to the cross river gorilla is habitat loss caused by deforestation. Parts of the cross river gorilla's territory have also been taken over by civil unrest in recent years, which, along with poaching, has had a truly devastating affect on wild populations.  

The cross river gorilla tends to live in groups which are led and protected by the alpha male. The alpha male cross river gorilla also mates with the females in his group, producing generally single offspring, known as babies. The cross river gorilla babies remain with their mother until they are a few years old and become independent.  

Today, the cross river gorilla is a critically endangered species with an estimated wild population of just 280 individuals. Habitat loss and hunting by humans for their meat, has led to the cross river gorilla now being considered one of the 25 most endangered animals on the surface of the planet.
		 	      

	       The Drever has a lot of stamina, and has become a popular hunting hound for deer hunters in northern Norway, Sweden, and Finland (in Finland drevers are not allowed in deer hunting yet, but it is used for hare and fox hunting). Roe deer are nervous quarry, and the hounds which are used to hunt them must move slowly, especially in areas where heavy snow can be expected in late autumn. Thus, the breeding of a dog with a medium-sized body but short legs has a practical application.  

This breed is usually kept as a hunting hound and is not usually found as a companion animal. The Drever is alert and self-possessed, has an affable, even temperament, and is rarely overly aggressive or shy. The Drever is uncommon outside of Europe.		 	      

	       The Carolina Dog, or American Dingo, is a type of wild dog discovered in the late 1970s. They were located living in isolated stretches of longleaf pines and cypress swamps in the Southeastern United States.		 	      

	      The crane is a large, long-beaked bird that is found all over the world. There are 15 different species of crane found on Earth today, but despite their similar appearance, cranes are not related to other long-necked birds such as herons.  

Cranes are found on every continent with the exceptions of the Antarctic and South America, where they are found inhabiting the temperate wetlands and swamps throughout the Northern and Southern Hemispheres.  

Cranes are large sized birds that to grow to an average of 1 meter in height. Some species of crane however, such as the Red-Crowned crane of Eastern Asia, can grow to nearly 1.5 meters tall. Other crane species can be slightly smaller although they are in general, very large birds.  

Despite their seemingly enormous body size, cranes are actually quite agile flyers, getting their practise as they migrate between Siberia, China and Japan. Unlike herons, cranes fly with their necks outstretched which helps them to control their large bodies when soaring through the skies.  

Despite its large size, the crane is an omnivorous bird meaning that it feeds on both plants and animals alike. Spending their lives close to water, cranes primarily feed on aquatic organisms including insects, fish and amphibians, along with a variety of plants including grains and tree bark.  

Due to the sheer size of adult cranes, they have few natural predators within their native environment. Foxes, wildcats and large birds of prey including owls and eagles are the most common predators of the crane and mainly their chicks.  

Cranes generally breed in the warmer summer months although the exact breeding season depends on the crane species. Female cranes construct large nests, generally in the trees, where they lay between 3 and 5 eggs. Once hatched the crane chicks are nursed by their parents until they are strong enough to fledge (fly away from the family nest).  

Today, many of the 15 crane species are either considered to be vulnerable in the wild or critically endangered. The drastic decline of the world's crane populations is primarily due to habitat loss and pollution in their native environments.		 	      

	      Abyssinian History and Domestication
The Abyssinian Cat is thought to be one of the oldest breeds of domestic Cat in the world, as the first domestication of the Abyssinian Cat occurred in Ancient Egyptian times. It is thought that Abyssinian Cats were bought and sold on the banks of the River Nile by traders, where the African Wild Cats (the ancestors of all domestic Cats) lived in their native habitats. Abyssinian Cats are most easily identified by their "ticked" fur which gives their coat a mottled appearance.  

Abyssinian Physical Characteristics
The Abyssinian Cat has a more wild looking appearance when compared to many breeds of domestic Cat in modern times. The Abyssinian Cat has large ears (meaning it has fantastic hearing) on top of it's broad head, and the large almond-shaped eyes of the Abyssinian are still distinctive to this breed today. The Abyssinian Cat is a medium sized Cat with a long and muscular yet slender body and a relatively short tail. Although today, the Abyssinian can be found in a variety of different colours from blue to lilac to red, the dense, silky fur of the Abyssinian was originally silver or fawn in colour.  

Abyssinian Behaviour and Temperament
The Abyssinian Cat is known to be extremely intelligent and playful and is thought to be one of the most active breeds of domestic Cat as the Abyssinian seems to find it almost impossible to sit still. Abyssinian Cats are known to be extremely loyal and obedient felines making them easy to train in the house. The Abyssinian Cat is as wild in temperament as it is in appearance and enjoys to have a lot of attention as well as to keep active, which also tends make these Cats naturally good hunters.  

Abyssinian Breeding
Today, most species of modern day domestic Cat are thought to have descended from, or be close descendants of, the Abyssinian Cats which were brought to England from Northern Africa in the 19th century. The Abyssinian Cat is thought to have been one of the first species of Wild Cat to have been domesticated by Humans, and is therefore one of the first wild animals to be treated like a household pet. The Abyssinian is now one of the most popular domestic Cat breeds in the USA and was thought to have been first exhibited in Crystal Palace in 1871 and the first official listing of the Abyssinian Cat breed was in 1882.   

Abyssinian Interesting Facts and Features
In Ancient Egypt, the Abyssinian Cat was seen as a sign from the Ancient Egyptian Gods and was therefore thought to be a sacred animal with legend deeming that the Abyssinian was the "Child of the Gods" and it was therefore worshipped on the banks of the Nile. This meant that the Egyptian people believed that the Abyssinian Cats were extremely special animals and they therefore looked after their Cats very well, with Abyssinian Cats often being depicted as sacred beings in Ancient Egyptian art and legend.   


		 	      

	      The collared peccary, also referred to as a Javelina or musk-hog, may resemble a pig, however, peccaries belong to a completely different family than true pigs. The collared peccary belongs to the Tayassuidae family while pigs belong to the Suidae family. The reasoning behind this separation is a result of anatomical differences between the animals.  

Collared peccaries are a widespread animal which range from South-western United States through Central America and into South America. In South and Central America the collared peccary prefers to live in the tropical rainforests. Although, in North America they can be found roaming the deserts, which are particularly rich with prickly pears.  

The javelina is definitely pig-like in appearance, however, they tend to be smaller than pigs with longer, thinner legs. As well, the collared peccary has a large head with a long snout and razor-sharp tusks which point towards the ground. Their coats are thick and bristly with a dark grey colour and a ring of white fur around their neck, which looks a lot like a collar. The collared peccary also has a very strong musk gland located on the top of their rump. In fact it is so strong that you will often smell this animal before you see it.  

Collared peccaries are social animals which form bands generally ranging from 6 to 12 animals. This group of animals will do almost everything together from foraging to sleeping and eating. Only the old and sick don't band up since they prefer to die in on their own. These bands are usually lead by a dominant male with the rest of the pecking order determined by size. Due to the extremely hot temperatures in musk-hog's range, they tend to be most active during the cooler mornings and evenings. The rest of the day the peccaries will seek the shade or stay close to permanent watering holes since they are not able to cool themselves off by panting.   

Peccaries mainly feed on berries, grass, roots, beans, nuts and cacti. In fact they rely very heavily on cacti such as the prickly pear since they have a very high water content. A good source of water is important in the drier climates. These animals will supplement their diet with animals such as insects and small lizards.   

Predators of this pig-like animal include coyotes, mountain lions and jaguars, although the young and weak may also be preyed upon by bobcats, ocelots and the boa constrictor. The sharp upper canines and large herd formations are some of the defence mechanisms used by peccaries to protect themselves.  

Females usually become mature around 8 to 14 months while the males are mature after 11 months. Breeding will occur all year long and is usually dependant upon the rain. During the wet and rainy years, more young tend to be born. The litter size of the peccary is between 1 and 4 young which have a gestation period of around 145 days.  

Although, their hides have been a source of economic income for humans for decades, their population seems to remain healthy. Luckily the collared peccary is widespread and fairly abundant which leads to a conservation status of least concern. 		 	      

	      The cougar is native to the Americas, particularly south America and western North America and is often known by other names such as mountain lion, puma and panther. Cougars can be found mainly in the mountain regions of Canada and Mexico, but as the name cougar is often used to describe an un-spotted leopard, cougars are also found in Asia and Africa.   

The cougar is the fourth biggest feline in the world behind the lion, tiger and jaguar, making the cougar the second largest cat in the Americas. The cougar has longer back than front legs and a long heavy body.  

Cougars prey on large mammals such as moose, deer, elk and stray wolves and can often go for long periods of time without food. Cougars are also well known for their amazing ability to jump up to 30ft.  

Cougars tend to have between 1 and 4 cubs, generally during the spring and summer time when the adult cougars are hunting well again after the harsh winters. A cougar typically lives until its about 20 years old.  

Due to the cougars vast range, the cougar is known in different places by different names. Until the late 1990s there were thought to be 32 different species of cougar inhabiting both North and South America. Recent studies however, have shown that the DNA of the majority of the 32 cougar species was too similar. There are therefore only 5 different species of cougar found on the American continent.  

Today the cougar is only found in parts of Florida in North East America and the cougars range on the west coast has been dramatically reduced by human interference. The cougar is most commonly found in the Canadian Rockies and the more mountainous regions of Southern Mexico.
		 	      

	      The cichlid is a brightly coloured freshwater fish that can range in size from just a couple of centimetres to over a metre in length. All species of cichlid are very similar in appearance with the exception of their size and colour.  

There are more than 1,300 known species of cichlid with more being found each year. There is an estimated 3,000 different species in total! Every different species of cichlid is only found in Africa and in very specific places.   

The cichlid is native to the Victoria, Malawi, and Edward Lakes of eastern Africa and the Tanganyika lake which is the largest lake in central Africa. The two different types of cichlids are thought to have evolved from different fish. The great diversity of the cichlids in these lakes, is of significant importance to scientists studying evolution within species.  

Cichlids are often popular fish to keep as they as can be small and colourful but are easier to keep in an artificial aquarium than marine fish. Other cichlids are bred for meat due to their enormous size and are often caught in the wild by local fishermen.  

Oddly enough there are actually a few species of cichlid that are found in the waters of the Amazon basin in South America. The freshwater angelfish, the discus fish and the oscar (also known as the marbled cichlid), are thought to have evolved from African cichlids years ago after crossing the Atlantic Ocean.  

Although there are many different species of cichlid, a great deal of them are considered to be endangered species as they have been over hunted and the waters in which they life have been subjected to vast amounts of pollution, particularly fuels such as diesel.  

The diet of the cichlid is largely dependent on it's species. Some species of cichlid feed mainly on algae and small invertebrates, others primarily feed on small animals such as insects and fish and some species of cichlid will eat just about anything that they can find which has proved to be a destructive trait for those cichlids that have been artificially introduced to areas such as Asia and the United States.  

Cichlids are prey to numerous predators including humans, other fish and birds. Oddly enough, the biggest predator of the small cichlid species are the larger species of cichlid that exist in the same area.  

All species of cichlid are known to show strong parental bonds during breed. When the female cichlid has laid the eggs on an underwater log or rock, she fans water over them while the male cichlid defends their territory. Cichlids look after the baby cichlids (known as fry) until they are able to swim freely and are a few weeks old.		 	      

	      The cuscus is a large marsupial native to the Northern forest of Australia and the large, tropical island of Papua New Guinea. The cuscus is a subspecies of possum with the cuscus being the largest of the world's possum species.  

The cuscus is known to range in size from just 15cm to more than 60cm in length, although the average sized cuscus tends to be around 45cm (18inches). The cuscus has small ears and large eyes which aid the cuscus through it's nocturnal lifestyle.  

The cuscus is an arboreal mammal, and spends it's life almost exclusively in the trees. The cuscus rests in the trees during the day, sleeping in the dense foliage and awakens at night to start moving through the trees in search of food. The cuscus is an omnivorous animal but the cuscus mainly eats leaves and fruits occasionally feasting on small birds and reptiles.  

The cuscus is thought to breed throughout the year rather than having a strict breeding season. The mother cuscus gives birth to between 2 and 4 baby cuscus after a gestation period of just a couple of weeks. As with all marsupials, the female cuscus has a pouch on her tummy which the new born cuscus babies crawl into and stay until they are bigger, less vulnerable and able to start feeding themselves. Typically only one of the cuscus babies will survive and emerge from the pouch after 6 or 7 months.  

The cuscus has a long and very strong prehensile tail which is naked (has no fur) at the end. This allows the cuscus to be able to grip onto the tree branches more easily when the cuscus is moving from tree to tree and resting during the day. The cuscus also has long, sharp claws which help the cuscus when it is moving around in the trees. The cuscus has thick, woolly fur which can be a variety of colours including brown, tan and white.  

Due to the arboreal and nocturnal lifestyle of the cuscus, the cuscus has few natural predators in it's environment. The main predators of the cuscus (besides humans) are large snakes and birds of prey which tend to pick on the more vulnerable, young cuscus. The human is the biggest predator of the cuscus as natives hunt the cuscus for both the meat of the cuscus and the thick fur of the cuscus.  

When the cuscus was first discovered, scientists believed that the cuscus was a type of monkey due to the way that the cuscus moves through the trees and uses it's tail to grip onto branches. It was later discovered that the cuscus was actually most closely related to the possum.   

Today the cuscus populations are declining mainly due to deforestation and therefore loss of the habitat in which the cuscus exists. More and more of the secluded forests where the cuscus dwells, is being cut down with the trees being sold to logging companies.  

The cuscus is an elusive and very secretive animal that are extremely difficult to spot in the wild. It is said to be one of the most rewarding sights, if you spot a cuscus in it's natural habitat.		 	      

	      Coral reefs along our coastlines are the richest habitats on the planet and are home to countless animal species. Animals from all different groups including invertebrates, echinoderms, crustaceans, reptiles and fish can all be commonly found inhabiting coral reef communities all around the world.   

Coral reefs are made up from coral (which itself is an animal), that exists with other animals such as sponges and sea slugs. There are two main types of coral reef habitat which are hard coral reefs and soft coral reefs. Soft corals are individual animals (known as polyps) which move through the waters, and eventually settle. The hard corals are the reef-building corals and often consist of dead corals which have left a hard coral shell behind them when they die.  

Coral reefs are habitats that are so rich in life and biodiversity, that many different animal species are able to live together as there is no competition for food. Coral reefs are found in the world's tropical and sub-tropical coastal regions where it is always warm and never cool, even at night. The largest coral reefs can be found in the Caribbean, the south-west coast of Africa, and all around south-east Asia, Australasia and throughout the coastal regions of the South Pacific Ocean.  

Numerous different animal species inhabit coral reefs around the world and vary tremendously in size, shape and colour. Starfish, sea urchins and crustaceans are the most commonly found invertebrates on coral reefs, and countless species of fish including seahorses and eels can also be spotted with ease. Many species of sea snakes live in coastal waters particularly around south-east Asia, hunting small fish and eels in the coral reefs.  

Other animals may not inhabit the coral reefs permanently, but will pay frequent visits to the them in order to find food. Sharks are the most commonly found predators around coral reefs as they either feed there while they are passing or visit on a regular basis. Sea turtles can also be seen around coral reefs as they hunt for food, but they do not permanently exist there are they spend their lives swimming in the open ocean alone.  

The biggest threats to coral reefs and coastline wildlife are pollution, storms and commercial fishing. Dredging, is a type of fishing method that involves dragging the nets across the sea bed in order to get more fish. This method of fishing is extremely destructive to coral reefs particularly when so many of them are filled with animal species that are already on the brink of extinction (including many species of coral). Sea storms such as tsunamis can also have a devastating effect on coral reef communities, as one large wave can tear apart a whole reef community in an instant.
		 	      

	      The deer is found in the forests of Europe, Asia and North America, where most deer grow to an average of about 1 meter tall. Deer-like creatures are found in Africa, however they are all antelope and not deer.  

Deer stay in herds of approximately 25 deers per herd, mainly female deer and a dominant male deer known as  a stag. The male deer are protective deer and will often fight other stags to protect their herd of female deer and to protect their pride.  

The male deer horns shed and regrow every year, a little like the skin on a snake. The only species of deer with exception to this annual horn shedding is the Chinese water deer.  

There are around 40 different species of deer found in the woodlands of the Northern Hemisphere. There are roughly six different species of deer found in the UK alone, however, only the red deer and the roe deer are truly native to the Isles.  

Deer are known as selective feeders and spend most of their time browsing for food with the deer mainly eating leaves. Deer are very selective in what they eat and deer therefore spend a great deal of time picking out the shoots, leaves, grasses and fruits that are easy for the deer to digest.  

Humans have hunted deer for thousands of years and hunt the deer for the deer meat, milk and skins. Today, deer are commercially farmed for their meat, rather than being hunted, and in New Zealand alone there are over 3,000 deer farms across the two islands.  

Due to hunting from humans and other large predators, and the continued loss of the deer habitat, the wild deer are becoming very vulnerable and are being pushed into smaller areas of forest that is uninhabited by larger mammals.   

Deer are prey to many wild animals around the world from humans, to wolves, tigers, bears and occasionally foxes, and many other mammals will attempt to scavenge from a deer that has been killed by something else, seeing as many deer species can be quite big and are fairly fast. 		 	      

	      Chimpanzee Classification and Evolution
The Chimpanzee is a species of ape that is natively found in a variety of different habitats in western and central Africa. Closely related to other great apes including Orang-Utans and Gorillas, the Chimpanzee is also very closely related to Humans as we share 98% of the same DNA. They are thought to be the most intelligent animals on the planet after people and are not only known to show emotion but they are also great problem-solvers and are even known to not just use, but also make tools to help them to survive more successfully in their surroundings. There are two different species of Chimpanzee which are the Common Chimpanzee and the smaller Bonobo (also known as the Pygmy Chimpanzee) which has a limited distribution south of the Congo River. However, despite being highly adaptable and intelligent creatures, Chimpanzees are severely threatened in their natural habitats today, mainly due to hunting for bushmeat and deforestation.  
Chimpanzee Anatomy and Appearance
Chimpanzees are large primates that have long yet sparse black hairs covering their bodies with the exception of their face, palms and the soles of their feet. Their hair not only allows them to remain warm in areas at higher altitudes but it also provides their skin with some protection from the sun. The hairless parts of their bodies are light to dark brown in colour depending on the age of the individual (their skin darkens as they mature). They have large ears that give them excellent hearing and a heavy brow-ridge over their eyes. Like other great apes, Chimpanzees have good sight and are able to see in colour, while their forward facing eyes allow them to focus on a single object clearly. They have long fingers and an opposable big toe that helps them to grip onto things, with their arms also being longer than their legs which enables them to move around on all fours which is known as knuckle-walking. Chimpanzees have 32 teeth which are very similar to those of Humans to help them to not just grind up plant matter but their longer canines also help to bite into flesh.  
Chimpanzee Distribution and Habitat
Chimpanzees are found throughout 21 different countries in western and central Africa where they are known to inhabit a variety of different regions from the tropical, humid rainforests to the dryer and more arid regions of the savanna and open woodlands. They are excellent climbers and rely heavily on the surrounding trees not just for protection from predators but also to find food and places to nest during the night. Chimpanzees have been severely affected by the loss of much of their natural habitat as forests are cleared to make way for agriculture or to cut down the trees as tropical timber. With groups being pushed into smaller and smaller ranges the competition for food and nesting sites increases and conflict can occur both between different groups and amongst individuals who reside in the same community.  
Chimpanzee Behaviour and Lifestyle
Chimpanzees are highly sociable animals that spend the daylight hours feeding, playing and grooming with other members of the group. Groups (also known as communities) can range in size from 15 to 120 individuals depending on the habitat and the amount of food available. They are highly territorial and do not tolerate outsiders in their midst, often killing an individual that is from another group. Chimpanzee groups have incredibly complex social structures with the dominant males not necessarily being the strongest individuals but more the ones that can rally together the most supporters. Chimpanzees make nests in the trees at night by folding over branches to provide them with a safe platform on which to sleep, with a new nest being constructed every day. Although they spend a lot of time both sleeping and eating in the trees and do move about by swinging from branch to branch, most travel is done using a network of paths on the ground using their knuckles to balance on.   
Chimpanzee Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although bonds within the group can last for many years, there are no long-term bonds between males and females as far as reproduction is concerned. Female Chimpanzees can give birth at any time of year to a single infant that is born after a gestation period that lasts for around eight months. After birth the infant clings onto it's mother's fur and will remain with her solidly for the first few years when the young begins to get more adventurous and starts to explore their surroundings increasingly more on their own. Young Chimpanzees learn the skills they need to survive by watching their mother including what to eat, how to make tools and nest building, along with playing with other young individuals to practise both their grooming and wrestling skills. Females are thought be able to reproduce at 13 years of age where males seem to develop slightly later and breed when they are about 16 years old.  
Chimpanzee Diet and Prey
The Chimpanzee is an omnivorous animal that eats hundreds of different types of food. The bulk of their diet is comprised of seasonal fruits, seeds and flowers that are picked from the trees, along with insects such as ants and termites that are extracted from their nests using a stick. However, they are known to eat larger prey too and when working together, sub-groups are able to kill monkeys and birds and have even been known to successfully hunt small antelope. Chimpanzees are the only animals (apart from Orang-Utans and Humans) that don't just use tools but also make them. They are known to strip the leaves and twigs off branches which are then inserted into a termite mound, where the termites crawl onto the branch and the Chimpanzee then licks them off. They are also known to use stones as hammers to open nuts and have even been known to use chewed leaves as a sponge to soak up water, which is then drunk from the leaf.  
Chimpanzee Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that they spend so much time in the trees, Chimpanzees are not at great risk from many of the large predators that are found on the ground. There are however, animals that can live both on the ground and in the trees with Leopards being one of the biggest natural threats to these animals. Chimpanzees are also preyed upon by large species of snake and can be killed by other primates (including other Chimpanzees). Infants are at greater risk than their parents as they have even been known to be captured and eaten by Baboons that share their ranges. The biggest threat to Chimpanzees though is people that have not only hunted them for their meat but have also wiped out vast areas of their natural habitats, meaning fewer trees to eat and rest in.  
Chimpanzee Interesting Facts and Features
Chimpanzees are highly sociable and spend much time every day grooming one-another. Not only does this keep them clean and free from parasites but it is also thought to be relaxing for them and strengthens social bonds within the group. Chimpanzees are known to make 30 distinct calls with which they communicate with other members of the group, including the pant-hoot. This series of shrieks and roars is the most common noise for an adult Chimpanzee to make and can be heard up to 2km away. Although they do make a variety of different sounds, most communication is through facial expression. They have very flexible lips which are curled apart to produce a "smile" that actually signifies fear when they are either angry or feel threatened. Chimpanzees are known to be one of the world's most intelligent animal species and can not only remember things but are also able to recognise themselves in a mirror.  
Chimpanzee Relationship with Humans
Chimpanzees and Humans are thought to share a common ancestor that lived around 8 million years ago but Chimpanzees have been severely affected by their closest relatives. People have hunted and killed Chimpanzees for bushmeat which still continues today (despite being prohibited), with some populations having also been devastated as they inhabit regions which have been in long periods of civil war. However, it is the loss of their natural habitats which is having the worst affect on Chimpanzees as they need the trees around them to survive. Despite the lack of care for them in the wild, the human-like nature of Chimpanzees has fascinated people for years both in science and in zoos where there are always people crowding around, enjoying watching them interact. A great deal of what we now know about Chimpanzees is thanks to the work of Jane Goodall who spent 30 years studying them in the wild in the Gombe National Park, Tanzania.  
Chimpanzee Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Chimpanzee is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Endangered in it's natural environment and therefore faces the threat of extinction in the near future if nothing is done to change the situation. It is estimated that there could be as few as 100,000 individuals remaining in Africa, with the population having thought to have declined rapidly over the past 30 years. With the level of deforestation continuing to increase, Chimpanzees are being pushed into smaller and more isolated regions of their once vast natural range leading to further population declines in many areas of Africa.
		 	      

	      The dingo is medium-sized canine natively found on the Australian continent and even into South-East Asia. The dingo is thought to have once been a domestic dog that has returned to living in the wild now for thousands of years.  

The dingo can be found in a variety of habitats throughout the Australian mainland and it's surrounding islands. Dingos are in both woodlands and rainforests, shrublands and even on the outskirts of the arid Australian deserts.  

Due to the fact that the dingo (along with domestic dog breeds) is the largest predator found on the land on the Australian continent, the dingo is considered to be an apex predator and therefore plays a vital role in the different ecosystems that occur across the continent.  

Despite having once been domesticated, today the dingo lives a life completely independent of humans, and dingos can be found in packs containing around 10 dingo individuals. Some dingos are nocturnal animals, where others are more active during the day, but this depends on the climate where the dingo lives.  

The dingo is a carnivorous animal and one of Australia's most dominant predators. The diet of the dingo is similar to that of other pack-canines such as wolves, as they hunt rabbits, rodents, small mammals, lizards, birds, wallabys and even the occasional kangaroo.  

Due to the large size and dominant nature of the dingo, the dingo has no real predators within its natural environment besides humans who are responsible for the destruction of the dingo's habitat, and the odd crocodile.  

Dingos breed once a year, generally before August in the south and after August in the north. After a gestation period of around 2 months, the female dingo gives birth to litter of between 1 and 10 pups. The pups are blind when they are first born but grow up quickly, as dingo pups leave their mother and the den when they are 8 weeks old.  

Today, mainly due to deforestation and habitat loss, the dingo is considered to be an animal that is vulnerable to extinction. In Australia, the dingo is protected animal and part of their conservation work includes insuring that the dingo does not start interbreeding with domestic dogs, therefore keeping the dingo as a species, pure.		 	      

	      The crab is a type of crustacean similar to prawns, shrimp and lobster. There are more than 6,700 known species of crab found in waters worldwide and these many crab species are split into around 93 different crab groups.  

Most crab species are found in the shallower ocean waters where the crabs tend to inhabit rocky pools and coral reefs. There are however, a number of species of freshwater crab that inhabit the waters in rivers and lakes and some species of tropical crab have been known to spend a great deal of time on land.  

Generally crabs dont get bigger than 40 cm in size, with the exception of the Japanese spider crab that has been known to have a leg span of over 4 meters long! The smallest type crab is the pea crab with this tiny species of crab only growing to a few millimeters.  

Crabs have a thick armoured shell which protects the crab from immediate danger. The crab also has two front armoured claws which the crab uses to catch its prey.  

The crabs hunt by sitting in a dark hole and catching potential prey that swims past. This allows the crab to feed effectively as well as staying hidden from those that would want to eat the crab.		 	      

	      Coyotes (prairie wolf)  are native to North and Central America although they are believed to have split off from the European grey wolf.  They are a species in their own right, differing from wolves in vocalization patterns, ecology, pack structure. The coyotes scientific name Canis latrans actually means barking dog.  

Coyotes grow up to about 90cm in length, which is a similar size to a medium dog. The northern subspecies of coyote generally grows bigger than the southern subspecies of coyote.  The Eastern coyote is the largest of all and has been found to be the result of a few remnant wolves mating with incoming coyotes in the northeastern states of the USA.   

The coyote is able to reach sprinting speeds of around 40 mph which the coyote is able obtain for extended periods of time. The coyote  can also jump to heights of up to 4m!  

There are 19 different subspecies of recognised coyote with only 3 of these coyote subspecies found in central America. The remaining 16 subspecies of coyote can be found distributed throughout Mexico, Canada and the USA.  

Historically the coyote has generally been nocturnal but now can often be seen during the day in areas where they are not persecuted by humans. In areas where they are heavily hunted and trapped they tend to remain nocturnal.  Coyotes adapt very well to suburban life and can often be seen drinking out of swimming pools.  

The coyote tends to reside in a burrow when its not looking for food and the coyote is more than capable of digging the burrow itself. The coyote is intelligent enough to find and inhabit an  empty badger burrow if at all possible. This becomes the center of the coyotes territory which can extend to 19 km around the den.  The size of the territory depends on how much food is available. 

Coyotes tend to associate in mated pairs, though in areas where large prey live a loose pack structure is observable. They are considerably less social than wolves and their threat displays are much more primitive.  They arch their backs and gape their jaws and do not have the repertoire of facial expression the more social wolf has.

The coloring of the coyote varies considerably according to location.  In the northernmost parts of its range coyotes can be pale to almost white in color.  In the west they tend to be a rich reddish hue with black markings.  In the plains states they are plain grayish brown.  The occasional black coyote is seen in the great plains states and in the eastern states; those may actually be the result of hybridization with wolves.  It would take DNA analysis to be sure.		 	      

	       The Curly Coated Retriever was originally developed as a gun dog and their temperament and conformation reflect this purpose. Curlies are still used in many countries as bird hunting companions, including in both upland and waterfowl hunting.   

Like most retrievers, they are valued as pets and are a lively and fun-loving breed. As long as the Curly has enough exercise, it can be calm and laid back in the home environment, which makes them both a great activity dog as well as a placid member of the family.  

The Curly can be sometimes aloof with strangers but are usually very loyal and affectionate with their owners and family. Curlies are extremely intelligent in general, but training can sometimes be difficult as they can easily get bored with repetitive training.		 	      

	      Darwin's frog is a small species of frog, native to the forest streams of Chile and Argentina. Darwin's frog is named after Charles Darwin who came across it on his famous "Voyage of the Beagle".  

Darwin's frogs can be found inhabiting beech-tree forests and fields, in the cooler regions of South America. Darwin's frogs can also be found living near and in slow streams and swamps throughout Chile and across the border into Argentina.  

Darwin's frog has a very distinct appearance, having evolved to look a bit like a leaf. This means that when the Darwin's frog feels threatened by approaching predators, it simply remains very still on the forest floor looking like a dead-leaf until the danger has passed.  

Darwin's frog is a small, yet round species of frog that has a triangular shaped head and pointed snout. Despite having some webbing on their back feet, Darwin's frogs do not have webbed front feet as this helps them when moving around on the forest floor.  

Like many other amphibian (and indeed frog) species, the Darwin's frog is a carnivorous animal that uses it's long, sticky tongue to catch it's prey. Darwin's frogs feed on a variety of small invertebrates including insects, worms, snails and spiders.  

Due to it's small size, and despite it's best attempts at blending in, the Darwin's frog has a number of predators in it's native habitat. Small mammals such as rodents, snakes and birds all commonly prey on the Darwin's frog.  

The Darwin's frog is well known for the way in which it takes care of it's young. The female lays her eggs, which are then guarded by the male for about 2 weeks. Once hatched, the male Darwin's frog carries the developing tadpoles in a pouch in his throat until they are tiny froglets and are able to hop away.  

Today, the Darwin's frog is a species that is considered to be vulnerable from extinction mainly due to habitat loss in the Darwin's frog's native habitat, primarily caused by deforestation.
		 	      

	      The cuttlefish is a small-medium sized mollusc that is found throughout the ocean waters of the world. In the same way as their squid and octopus relatives, cuttlefish have a large, elongated body with tentacles surrounding their mouths.   

Cuttlefish are found in large numbers throughout the world's ocean waters from the warm, tropical shallows to the cold depths of the deep ocean. Cuttlefish are well known for the "flashing" colours that are displayed on their bodies during fighting and mating. In the same way as squid and octopuses, the cuttlefish also has an ink sack which ejects ink in order to fool oncoming predators.  

There are 120 known species of cuttlefish found across the globe which vary in size from just 15 cm to the Australian giant cuttlefish which is often half a meter in length (not including its tentacles) and weighs more than 10kg.  

The cuttlefish is a carnivorous animal that primarily preys on small crustaceans such as shrimp and crabs, but the cuttlefish also eats alot of fish. The cuttlefish uses its ability to change body colour to hide itself, before catching its prey with the sucker-pads on the end of its long tentacles which bring the prey into the sharp beak of the cuttlefish.    

Due to the generally relatively small size of the cuttlefish, there are numerous marine predators that hunt them. Large fish, sharks and even other cuttlefish (sometimes of the same species) are the most common predators of the cuttlefish along with humans who hunt the cuttlefish around the world.  

During the mating season, male cuttlefish change their body colours in order to successfully attract a female. Some male cuttlefish have even been known to make themselves look like female cuttlefish in order to trick the dominant males and stealing their mates. The female cuttlefish lays around 200 small eggs and sadly dies soon afterwards.  		 	      

	      The fox is a scavenger carnivours dog, generally found in urban city areas in the northern Hemisphere. The fox is a nocturnal mammal, meaning that the fox only goes out a night to hunt for prey.  

Wild foxes tend live for around 6-7 years, but some foxes have been known to be older than 13 in captivity. The wild fox hunts for the mouse and other small mammals and birds, but foxes appear to enjoy all species of insect.  

A fox is generally smaller than other members of the dog family like wolves, jackals and domestic dogs. Foxes can be a pest in the cities as foxes are often seen tearing into rubbish.
  

There are around 12 different species of fox found around the world, which include the urban fox or red fox, the beautifully white Arctic fox, the sand fox which is a light-coloured fox found in desert regions and the tiny yet big eared fennec fox.  

Foxes in Europe have been the victims of fox hunting, an extremely controversial sport that involves humans on horses hunting out the fox, lead by a pack of hound dogs which would find the fox by following the scent of the fox. Fox hunting in this manner is now illegal, although it is still allowed if the sport only contains humans on horseback, without the use of their clever but somewhat vicious dogs.  

The fox is also found in the more rural areas of the Northern hemisphere, although fox numbers in the countryside are outnumbered by fox numbers in cities as due to the foxes scavenging nature, food is more readily available in the urban streets.   		 	      

	      The fire-bellied toad is small to medium-sized species of toad that is found naturally across mainland Europe and northern and central Asia. The fire-bellied toad is most commonly known for the brightly-coloured markings on its body, which are predominantly found on the underside of the fire-bellied toad.  

The fire-bellied toad is found close to water in a variety of different habitats. Forest, woodland, temperate rainforests, marshlands, swamps and even farmland, often provides the perfect home for the fire-bellied toad. The fire-bellied toad also spends a great deal of time in water from tiny freshwater, mountain streams to large slow-flowing rivers and lakes.  

There are eight different species of fire-bellied toad found throughout Europe and Asia. Despite varying slightly in size and colour, the different species of fire-bellied toad all look fairly similar having bumpy skin, webbed toes and eyes on the top of their heads. The different species of fire-bellied toad of so similar that two in particular are able to interbreed and produce fertile offspring.  

The skin colour of the fire-bellied toad depends on the species but can range from brown to yellow, to green, to orange and even white. The skin of the fire-bellied toad is known to be toxic to some animals including humans.  

The fire-bellied toad is a carnivorous animal as the fire-bellied toad has a diet that mainly consists of small invertebrates like bugs and insects. The fire-bellied toad is able to catch its prey by shooting out its long, sticky tongue which grabs onto the insect and pulls it into the open mouth of the fire-bellied toad. The fire-bellied toad is also known to eat spiders, larvae and the odd worm.  

Due to its small size, the fire-bellied toad has numerous predators within its natural environment. Foxes, cats, snakes, lizards and birds are the most common predators of the fire-bellied toad along with some species of large fish. The eggs and tadpoles of the fire-bellied toad also have a number of aquatic predators in the water.  

The fire-bellied toad mates during the late spring, when the female fire-bellied toad lays between 50 and 300 sticky eggs onto a plant stem or leaf that hangs over the water. The eggs of the fire-bellied toad are joined together and are known as toadspawn, but it can take a couple of years before the fire-bellied toad tadpoles have full transformed into adult toads.		 	      

	      Coniferous forest is generally found in the far north with a vast area of coniferous forest being found deep within the Arctic Circle. Coniferous forests are predominantly made up of conifers which are the toughest and longest living trees in the world. Conifers grow relatively close together producing dense and sheltered forest.  

There are two real types of coniferous forest, which are the boreal forests that stretch across the far north, and more temperate forests which are found in New Zealand, Chile and western North America. Some of the trees in the temperate coniferous forests of North America can grow to be 75 metres tall and are more than 500 years old.  

The boreal coniferous forests stretch in an almost unbroken band across the far north from Siberia, throughout Northern Europe, to Alaska. This coniferous forest covers a distance of 6 million square miles and can be 1,000 miles wide in places. A large proportion of boreal coniferous forest stands within the Arctic Circle, meaning that plants and animals that live there have be well adapted to the bitterly cold winters.  

Although life is not as rich in coniferous forests as it is in temperate forests or rainforests, there are a number of species that thrive within them. Coniferous forests are made up of conifer trees which have needle shaped leaves and grow very close to one another. Although conifers are excellent at withstanding the cold, the pine needles are acidic and this is passed into the soil when the pine needles fall to the ground. This means that only plants that can grow in acidic conditions will survive in coniferous forests.  

The plants that grow within a habitat affect the herbivores that live there meaning that only herbivores that can survive on plants that are so acidic, can inhabit coniferous forests. Coniferous forests are mainly home to insects, who build their nests in the dense trees. Deer and elk can often be found in coniferous forests as they browse on the berries that grow on the low-laying shrubs. Large predators such as bears and wolves can also be found in coniferous forests where they hunt for prey, such as large herbivores.  

Out of all of the forest types, coniferous forests are thought to have been the least affected by humans and deforestation. This is thought to be because the trees that grow within coniferous forests are softwood trees and so are only really used in the production of paper. However, as demand for paper increases around the world, larger areas of coniferous forests are being cut down.
		 	      

	      The eagle is a (generally) large sized bird of prey meaning that the eagle is one of the most dominant predators in the sky. Eagles are most commonly found in the Northern Hemisphere including Europe, Asia and North America. Eagles are also found on the African continent.  

There are more than 60 different species of eagle in the world with only 2 of these eagle species being found in the USA and Canada. However, one of these eagle species is one of the most common species of eagle, the bald eagle. Despite it's name the bald eagle has a full head of feathers but their bright white colour makes the bald eagle very distinguishable. The golden eagle is the only other species of eagle found on the American continent.   

The size of an eagle is dependent on the species of eagle. Eagles can range in size from 40cm to over 1m in height. The wing span of an eagle tends to be at least double the length of the eagle's body. Eagles have feathers on the ends of their wings which the eagles move up and down to help them when flying.  

Eagles are dominant predators and are known as birds of prey. Eagles feed off smaller birds and bats in the sky and small mammals and fish on the ground. The eagle is well known for it's incredible eyesight. An eagle's eyesight is so good that an eagle can apparently see a mouse on the ground when the eagle is still high in the sky.  

The eagle is used as a symbol in many national flags and emblems all around the world, as an eagle is believed to resemble power or good fortune. Eagles are dominant and ruthless predators in their environment and eagles therefore have very few natural predators themselves. Eagles are most likely to be hunted by smaller animals when they are chicks or still young and inexperienced so they are fairly vulnerable.   

Female eagles build their nests in tall tree tops or on high cliffs where they are at their safest. The mother eagle tends to lay two eggs, which hatch after about a month. In many eagle species however, one of the eagle chicks is naturally slightly stronger than the other chick, with the stronger chick generally killing it's weaker sibling.  

Eagles have adapted well to their dominant predatory lifestyle. Not only do eagles have exceptional eyesight and are about to soar remarkably quickly through the air for such a large bird, but eagles also have pointed beaks and agile feet known as talons. The beak of the eagle is perfectly designed for ripping flesh away from bone, and the talons of the eagle are so strong that the eagle is able to carry it's prey in it's feet until it reaches a safe place to eat it.   

 Eagle Foot Facts 

The eagle has very specially adapted large, clawed feet which are known as talons.
The talons of the eagle are powerful and strong and allow the eagle to catch prey on the ground or in water when the eagle is still in the air.
The talons of the eagle are designed to carry prey through the air and they are strong enough to hold onto a fish which weighs more than the eagle.
The feet of an eagle have four strong toes, and at the end of these toes are large, curved claws which enables the eagle to hook onto its prey.
The talons of a baby eagle are very short when compared to the talons of an adult eagle, and it takes a few years for the feet of the baby eagle to be fully sized.

  
 Eagle Teeth Facts 

Eagles have very sharp and pointed beaks which the eagle often uses to grab prey with.
The eagle uses the sharply pointed beak to bite animals at the base of their skull to kill them before swallowing them whole.
The beak of an eagle is extremely strong and powerful, although they will rarely carry their prey in their beak for large distances.
The beak of an eagle is made out of keratin and therefore is growing constantly, much like the hair and fingernails of a human being.
The beak of the eagle is almost as long as the head of an eagle and the eagle uses the hooked end of the beak to rip apart prey that this too big to swallow whole.


		 	      

	       The Dogue has an even temperament, and is extremely loyal and devoted to his master and family. Dogue de Bordeaux is gifted for guarding, which he assumes with vigilance and great courage but without aggressiveness.  

 He is a very good companion, being attached to and affectionate toward his master and family. He is calm and balanced with a high stimulus threshold.		 	      

	      The centipede is a speedy, carnivorous invertebrate that is found generally around decaying matter all around the world. Centipedes are not only carnivorous animals but the bite of the centipede also contains venom which means that the centipede kills it's prey before eating it.  

Despite their name, and the common conception that a centipede has 100 legs, this is in fact not true. The centipede has pairs of legs that run the length of the body of the centipede, which are normally between 15 and 30 pairs of legs in total and not 50.  

There are thought to be around 8,000 species of centipede worldwide, although only about 3,000 have actually been properly documented and undergone intense studying in the scientific world.  

The centipede can be found worldwide and has even been spotted inside the Arctic Circle. The centipede can range in size from a few millimetres to 30 cm long. The centipede has a bite that will be painful to humans but not fatal unless the human is allergic (like with wasp/bee stings).  

The centipede is usually found on land in moist habitats usually under rocks, leaf litter, logs and occasionally in burrows in the ground or rotting wood. The centipede favours damp environments and so is rarely found in the hot and dry desert regions.  

The centipede is one of the most dominant predators of the insect world, having claws on their first body segment is one of the centipedes noticeable traits. The centipede is a carnivorous animal and is therefore a pure meat-eater. Centipedes mainly prey on insects, spiders, earthworms and other small invertebrates although some large species of centipede have been known to prey on small mammals and reptiles.  

The centipede has a number of predators in it's natural environment although all the animals that generally prey on the centipede are relatively small. Birds, toads, frogs and small mammals such as shrews and mice are the most common predators of the centipede. The centipede is also seen by humans in certain cultures.  

Female centipedes lay an average of 60 eggs per clutch which are coated in a sticky substance for protection. The female centipede usually buries her eggs in the soil and some species of centipede are known to nurse their eggs and baby centipedes but not all.  

The centipede is one of the oldest animals on Earth having evolved into the form it is today, millions of years ago. The centipede has been found in fossils dating over 400 million years old.

		 	      

	       The name Fox Terrier or Foxy refers primarily to two different breeds of dog, the Smooth Fox Terrier and the Wire Fox Terrier, that were independently bred in England in the mid-19th century.   

The two terrier breeds are very similar, with the only major difference being the coats. The Smooth Fox Terrier has a smooth, flat, but hard and dense coat, whereas the Wire Fox Terrier coat should appear broken with a dense, wiry texture.  

In show circles, the terms fox terrier and foxy are only used for these two breeds, but in other communities around the world, particularly rural and farming ares, these words are used for these breeds and also to refer to mixed-breed dogs or working terriers of fox terrier type, or to descendent breeds such as the Toy Fox Terrier and Miniature Fox Terrier, which are similar to each other.		 	      

	       Doberman Pinschers are, in general, gentle, loyal, loving, and intelligent dogs.The Doberman is a strong,noble breed that protects the ones he loves! Although there is variation in temperament, a typical pet Doberman attacks only if it has been mistreated or believes that it or its family are in danger.  

 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Doberman Pinscher is less frequently involved in attacks on humans resulting in fatalities than several other dog breeds such as pit bull type dogs, German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers and Alaskan Malamutes.		 	      

	      The common toad (also known as the European toad), is a large-sized species of toad that is found throughout Europe. Although the common toad is not found in Iceland or some areas of the Mediterranean, the range of the common toad extends all the water to Siberia and into Northern Africa.    

The common toad is generally brown in colour but colours on the skin of the common toad can range from black to green to yellow. The skin of the common toad, as with other toad species, is permeable and has a rough appearance.  

The common toad is most active in wet weather and is most commonly found in areas close to water such as woodlands, forests, marshes and meadows. The common toad is also a nocturnal animal, spending the daylight hours resting and hunting by night.  

The common toad is an carnivorous animal, and the diet of the common toad therefore only consists of other animals. Insects are the primary source of food for the common toad, as they are caught when in the air by the long sticky tongue of the common toad. The common toad also feasts on other invertebrates such as worms and spiders.   

The common toad has a number of predators within its natural environment, mainly due to its relatively small size. Grass snakes, hedgehogs, foxes, cats and birds all commonly prey on the common toad.   

The female common toads lay their eggs in the water rather than on the land, in long strings known as toadspawn, The common toad tadpoles hatch into the water where they begin the process of metamorphosis which turns them from tadpole into an adult common toad.		 	      

	      Fish are found in every ocean, lake, river and stream in all  corners of the globe, in many sizes, colours and species. Most fish (depending on size) tend to eat plankton in the water, insects and smaller fish.  

Fish respire through gills in the sides of their heads, allowing the fish to breath underwater. Fish return to the water surface for air at varying intervals. The electric eel fish can go for up to 10 minutes without resurfacing for air.  

Due to the bright colours of fish, and the fact that fish are extremely peaceful animals, many people today now keep all kinds of fish in tanks and ponds.  
		 	      

	       As a result of their history as coach dogs, the dalmation is very active and needs plenty of exercise. They are very fast runners, with a great deal of stamina and self-reliance. Given freedom to roam the wild, they will take multi-day trips on their own across the countryside. In today's urban environment, they will not likely survive such excursions and must be contained.   

Their energetic and playful nature makes them good companions for children and they have an instinctive fondness for humans and horses. These qualities make them somewhat unbreakable, and forgiving of rough handling by children. However, it is imperative that they be socialized with children while still puppies, and also that children be taught the correct way to play with animals.  

They have very sensitive natures but respond favorably to calm assertive leadership by the pack leader. Their rambunctious and playful personalities necessitate constant supervision around very small children, whom they may accidentally knock over and hurt.  

 Dalmatians are extremely people-oriented dogs, and will get very lonely if left by themselves, and should be trained to accept their owners absence if they must be left alone as otherwise they will pine severely. A better option is to provide companions.  

 These dogs crave human companionship and do poorly if left alone in a backyard or basement. Dalmatians are famed for their intelligence, and survival instincts. In general they have good memories and are usually kind natured (though individual specimens may vary).    

Originally bred to defend carriages and horses, these dogs can become territorial if not trained otherwise.		 	      

	      The fly is one of the most common and well-known insects in the world and the fly is found on every continent with the exception of the innermost polar regions of the Arctic Circle and Antarctica.  

There are more than 240,000 different species of fly worldwide but only around half of these have actually been scientifically documented, something the science world wants to look into further.  

The insect fly includes bugs like the mosquito, a tiny fly found worldwide that feeds on animal blood. In this way the deadly disease of malaria continues to threaten the lives of those humans bitten by an infected mosquito.   

Flies and mosquitoes alike are known pests worldwide, generally connected with dirt, decay and disease as many species of fly are known to carry disease due to their ingestion of animal faeces, and connection with decaying bodies.  

Flies are omnivorous animals and will eat almost anything from nectar of plants, to sap and even animal blood. The fly is able to prey on such things at it uncoils it's long, straw-like tongue which then sucks the liquid into the fly's body. The maggots which are the baby flies, are known to feet primarily on decomposing matter such as excrement and flesh.  

Due to it's small size and abundance, the fly is preyed upon by a wide variety of predators around the world including amphibians such as frogs, toads and newts, fish that eat flies that land on the surface of the water, reptiles such as lizards and small mammals.  

Flies have an extremely short lifespan, only living for about a month. The female fly lays her eggs in decomposing material, both plants and animals, which hatch very quickly. The eggs hatch into fly larvae which are more commonly known as maggots and quickly transform into an adult fly. It is thought that the process from egg to fly takes just under 2 weeks.		 	      

	      The flamingo is a large colourful bird found both in South America and Africa. The flamingo is also found in the warmer areas of southern Europe and western Asia.  

The flamingo stays in flocks of up to around 200 birds and feeds on fish in stiller rivers and lakes. The flamingo usually gets to about 30 years old although it is not uncommon for some flamingos to get to 50 years old.  

Most species of flamingo are a pinky/orange colour, some however can be white, black or even blue. The colour of the flamingo comes from the flamingo eating a type of algae that then turns the flamingo into the bright pink bird that we are so familiar with.  

The flamingo is often seen on the banks of the lake standing on one leg. The flamingo is actually sleeping when it is on one leg but the strange thing is, that only half of the flamingo is actually asleep - the half that contains the leg still standing remains active. The flamingo then swaps over so that the remaining side can get some rest and the side that was sleeping becomes active again.  

There are six different species of flamingo found around the world. The different flamingo species are the greater flamingo which is the most widespread species of flamingo found in Africa, Southern Europe and Southern Asia. The lesser flamingo is the most numerous species of flamingo and is found in Africa and Northern India. The Chilean flamingo is a large species of flamingo that is found in South America. The James's flamingo is a small and delicate species of flamingo that is found in the Andes mountains in Peru, Chile, Bolivia and Argentina. The Andean flamingo is closely related to the James's flamingo and is also found in the Andes mountains in Peru, Chile, Bolivia and Argentina. The American flamingo is a large species of flamingo that is found in the Caribbean islands and the Galapagos islands.  

Flamingos use their large, oddly shaped beaks to filter shrimp out of the water. The flamingo uses it's strangely shaped upside-down beak to separate mud and food in the water. The mouth of the flamingo is covered in little hairs called lamellae which assist in the filtering of water and the flamingo also has a rough tongue which the flamingo also uses to help it to filter food out of the water.  

Although flamingos only nest once a year, flamingo colonies are known to breed at any time of the year. A flamingo reaches sexual maturity (which means the flamingo is able to breed) when the flamingo is between 3 and 6 years old. Flamingos build their nests out of mud, stones and feathers and do so about 6 weeks before they lay their eggs. Flamingos tend to lay just one egg that hatches after a 30 day incubation period. Both the mother flamingo and the father flamingo are known to help to raise the flamingo chick.  

Flamingos have relatively few predators in the wild but this is dependent on the area in which the flamingo inhabits. Human hunters, wild dogs and crocodiles are the main predators of the flamingo, along with eagles that prey upon the flamingo eggs and vulnerable flamingo chicks.		 	      

	      Dusky Dolphin Classification and Evolution
The Dusky Dolphin is a small species of dolphin that is found inhabiting the cooler waters along continental shelves throughout the southern hemisphere. This distinctive looking cetacean is closely related to other large marine animals including other dolphins, porpoises and whales but despite their fish-like appearance Dusky Dolphins are true mammals that both breathe air in and out of their lungs and also suckle their young on milk produced by the mother's mammary glands. Dusky Dolphins are widespread throughout the southern hemisphere with three species being recognised that have been grouped by their geographical range, with one found off the coast of South America, one near South Africa and in the Indian Ocean and another inhabits deeper waters close to New Zealand. Sadly however, despite being locally common in certain areas Dusky Dolphin populations have declined throughout much of their natural range primarily due to threats caused by increasing levels of human activity.   
Dusky Dolphin Anatomy and Appearance
The Dusky Dolphin is the smallest of the world's 33 different species of dolphin growing to under two meters in length and generally weighing less than 100kg. Like other species of cetacean, Dusky Dolphins have a smooth and hairless, streamlined body that helps them to glide through the water and is powered by their two tail flukes which lay horizontally rather than vertically like those of fish. The upper-side of their bodies is either dark grey or blue-black in colour and is separated from their light grey to white under-side by a grey line which runs from their beak to the base of their tail. Dusky Dolphins also have two light grey lines which run diagonally from their tail to their dorsal fin which is tall and curved to help them to change direction quickly in the water. The beak of the Dusky Dolphin is black and more rounded in shape than those of other dolphin species and contains between 24 and 36 pairs of sharp, cone-shaped teeth that are ideal for catching slippery and fast-moving prey.  
Dusky Dolphin Distribution and Habitat
Dusky Dolphins tend to be found in cool to temperate waters (10 - 18 degrees centigrade) close to continental shelves throughout the southern hemisphere, and seem to prefer shallower rather than deep water regions (although this can vary depending on the location and time of year). Although they are not generally known to participate in seasonal migrations, Dusky Dolphins can travel vast distances across the ocean and at great speed in search of food. The three Dusky Dolphin species have been classified by the regions in which they live with the highest populations found off the coast of South America, South-Western Africa and around New Zealand. There are also populations known to occur in the waters close to Argentina along with around the Falkland Islands further south. Despite their wide range and distribution throughout the southern hemisphere Dusky Dolphin populations have been decreasing mainly due to interaction with humans including being hunted for their meat and getting caught in the nets that are used to catch the shoaling fish which the Dusky Dolphins hunt.  
Dusky Dolphin Behaviour and Lifestyle
The exact behaviours and habits of Dusky Dolphins depends on the species and where they live however, they generally spend time close to the shore resting during the day in small groups that consist of between ten and twenty individuals. As night falls, these small groups begin to travel further away from land to feed and form pods consisting of up 1,000 individuals that includes both male and female members in order to work together to corner shoals of fish. Dusky Dolphins are incredibly sociable animals and can be seen playing, grooming and leaping together after feeding before breaking up into their smaller groups again to return closer to the coast to rest. Although they are able to dive for up to 90 seconds at a time, like other marine mammals Dusky Dolphins must keep returning to the water's surface to breathe, and expel old air and water from their lungs via the single blow-hole that is located on the top of their heads. They are highly intelligent animals and are often seen leaping out of the water before diving back in after gliding through the air for a few seconds. This technique is known as porpoising and enables the Dusky Dolphin to breathe but without having to slow down when chasing prey.  
Dusky Dolphin Reproduction and Life Cycles
Despite being relatively wide-spread across the southern hemisphere, the fast moving nature of the Dusky Dolphin has meant that it can often be hard to study these animals in the wild and quite little is therefore known about their lifespans in general. Most Dusky Dolphin calves tend to be born towards the end of the winter and in the early summer months between October and February when the female gives birth to a single offspring after a gestation period that lasts for around 11 months. The Dusky Dolphin calf is fed on the nutritious milk provided by it's mother until it is then taught to hunt by her after about a year. Calves tend to remain close their mother until they are around three years old when they leave to join a pod of their own (males with often form bachelor groups), and the female is then able to mate again. Dusky Dolphins are thought to be able to first breed when they are between the ages of four and five and are thought to live for an average of 20 years.  
Dusky Dolphin Diet and Prey
The Dusky Dolphin is a carnivorous animal that only feeds on other animals in order to gain the nutrients that it needs to survive. By congregating in large groups Dusky Dolphins are able to trap vast schools of fish so that they have the best opportunity to feed, by travelling through the waters in a line and pushing the shoal into an area where it is trapped. Prey depends largely on the area in which the Dusky Dolphins are feeding but they most commonly consume anchovies, sardines and mackerel in shallower waters, squid at mid-depths and larger prey including hake and octopus in deeper ocean. Although Dusky Dolphins have excellent hearing and are able to see remarkably well through the water, it is actually a specially evolved system that these animals use which both helps them to locate prey and to also avoid upcoming obstacles. By producing a rapid series of clicking noises, the Dusky Dolphin's brain is then able to translate the clicks that bounce off things ahead (such as fish) into a mental sound map of the surrounding area and therefore knows exactly where to find food.  
Dusky Dolphin Predators and Threats
The relatively large size, sociable nature and sheer speed of the Dusky Dolphin means that it has very few predators that hunt it in it's natural environment. Pods of Killer Whales (to which they are related) are the main predators of the Dusky Dolphin along with some large species of shark that venture into the shallower, coastal waters. The biggest threat to the world's Dusky Dolphin populations though is people encroaching more and more on their natural habitats usually in the form of commercial fishing. As humans are fishing for the same shoaling fish as the Dusky Dolphins it often leads to them being caught up in vast nets where they can quickly become trapped. Other reasons for the decline in Dusky Dolphins include the fact that they are also hunted in some areas (particularly Peru) for their meat and are injured by large boats that hit them.   
Dusky Dolphin Interesting Facts and Features
The Dusky Dolphin is thought to be one of the most intelligent animal species in the world and even communicates with other individuals using their own language which consists of a series of whistles, clicks and squeaks. The unique body shape of the Dusky Dolphin means that it is incredibly flexible and in fact, the most agile species of dolphin in the world. They are often seen leaping out of the water both when swimming and playing and the noise that is caused by them diving back into the water is able to travel for up to 1km through the water and up to 3km through the air. Dusky Dolphins are known to be incredibly sociable animals with sick or injured individuals helped by others that push them towards the surface so the vulnerable individual is able to breathe. Along with being seen together in their own pods, Dusky Dolphins are also known to interact with other cetaceans including Common Dolphins, which they feed alongside.  
Dusky Dolphin Relationship with Humans
Despite being one of the most intelligent animals in the world, the increasing amount of man-made obstacles such as boats and rigs that litter the sea has led to a decline in Dusky Dolphin populations as they are often hit by them. Populations around South America have also suffered greatly from hunting by people for their flesh which is used both as bait for fish and for human consumption. A study carried out between 1991 and 1993 revealed that 7,000 Dusky Dolphins were captured each year and although the hunting of dolphins has been recently banned, they are still commonly hunted as food. The issue however that most affects all Dusky Dolphin populations is the fact that they are often caught by accident in large fishing nets that are targeting the same fish that the dolphins are. However, in an growing number of places around the world watching the acrobatic Dusky Dolphin is becoming increasingly popular with tourists and bringing awareness to the threats that they face.    
Dusky Dolphin Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Dusky Dolphin is listed by the IUCN as being Data Deficient which means that although certain populations in certain areas are well reported, little is really known about those individuals that inhabit unpopulated regions. However, their numbers are known to be drastically declining throughout the southern hemisphere primarily due to the increasing levels of human activity in their native environments. Despite the hunting of them being banned, they are still caught in nets and trawlers in their thousands on a yearly basis. 
		 	      

	      The eastern gorilla is one of two gorilla sub-groups found roaming in the jungles on the African continent (the other being the western gorilla). The eastern gorilla is less common than the western gorilla and is also the largest primate in the world.  

The eastern gorilla is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forests of parts of eastern and central Africa, along with lowland swamps and secondary forests. The eastern gorilla is found in the trees in throughout the countries of Rwanda, Uganda and eastern Congo.  

There are considered to be two separate sub-species of eastern gorilla which are the eastern lowland gorilla and the mountain gorilla. Although only slightly different in appearance, the two eastern gorilla species differ in their numbers with the mountain gorilla being rarer in the wild today than the eastern lowland gorilla.  

The eastern gorilla is one of the great apes, a group that includes orang-utans, gorillas, humans and chimpanzees. As with the other great apes, the eastern gorilla has a number of features which makes living in the jungle a bit easier, including having opposable thumbs which come in handy when the eastern gorilla is peeling fruit.  

The eastern gorilla is an omnivorous animal, but the majority of it's diet is made up of eating fruit which the eastern gorilla is known to travel vast distances through the forests to find. The eastern gorilla also eats leaves, nuts and berries, along with insects and occasionally small animals such as lizards and rodents. The eastern gorilla has also been observed using basic tools in the wild in order to more effectively gather food.  

Due to it's large size, the eastern gorilla has few real predators in it's native African forests, with large cats such as leopards and the odd crocodile being the only real natural threat to the eastern gorilla. The biggest threat to the eastern gorilla is habitat loss caused by deforestation and also being hunted by humans. Parts of the eastern gorilla's territory has also been taken over by civil unrest in recent years, which, along with poaching, has had a truly devastating affect on wild populations.  

The eastern gorilla tends to live in groups which are led and protected by the alpha male. The alpha male eastern gorilla also mates with the females in his group, producing generally single offspring, known as babies. The eastern gorilla babies remain with their mother until they are a few years old and become independent.  

Today, all eastern gorillas are considered to be endangered species with populations having suffered due to habitat loss and illegal poaching. There are estimated to be around 5,000 eastern lowland gorillas, and an even fewer 700 mountain gorilla individuals left in the wild.
		 	      

	      Fossa Classification and Evolution
The Fossa is a medium-sized carnivore that is found exclusively on the island of Madagascar. The Fossa belongs to the Malagasy Carnivores group which are thought to have descended from Mongoose-like ancestors that arrived on Madagascar from Africa up to 24 million years ago. The Fossa is not only one of the most ancient of the eight species found on the island but it is also the largest, meaning that the Fossa is Madagascar's largest mammalian predator. However, due to the cat-like appearance of the Fossa it was believed to be a primitive species of feline until recently. Sadly like a number of the unique animal species found in Madagascar today though, the Fossa is incredibly rare and is now considered to be endangered in it's natural habitat primarily due to habitat loss.   
Fossa Anatomy and Appearance
The Fossa is the largest land predator on the island of Madagascar with some individuals growing to nearly two meters in length from their snout to the tip of their long and slender tail. The tail of the Fossa is around the same length as it's body and plays a crucial role in helping the animal to balance whilst it is leaping through the trees. The Fossa has short but dense red to dark brown fur and a small cat-like head and a dog-like snout, with large forward facing eyes and small, rounded ears. Despite being related to Mongooses, the Fossa remarkably has a number of feline features including curved, retractable claws and slightly webbed feet which both help the Fossa when it is moving about amongst the branches.   
Fossa Distribution and Habitat
Like the majority of the animal and plant species that are found on the island of Madagascar, the Fossa is found nowhere else on Earth. They rely on dense, forested areas where there is not only an ample food source but also plenty of space where the Fossa can establish it's large territory. Historically, Fossas would have been found in the forest and woodland areas across the island from coastal lowlands to mountainous regions, but are today restricted to a tiny portion of their once vast natural range due to extensive deforestation throughout Madagascar. Growing Human settlements have also severely affected Madagascar's Fossa populations as they are often hunted by farmers who fear for their livestock.  
Fossa Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Fossa is a solitary and nocturnal mammal that patrols territories as large as four square kilometres and marks their presence with scent released from their large anal gland. The Fossa spends the vast majority of it's life high in the trees but is known to both move about and hunt on the ground as well. They are incredibly agile at both climbing and leaping, which is greatly helped by their long and slender tail and the fact that they move about on the flat soles of their feet means that they have more balance and stability when landing precariously on branches. Although the Fossa is largely nocturnal, they are known to also hunt during the day particularly when there is a lack of food but generally spend the daylight hours resting in a hollow tree, cave or an abandoned termite mound.   
Fossa Reproduction and Life Cycles
Like many solitary carnivores, Fossas only come together to mate during the breeding season in September and October. After a gestation period that lasts for around three months, the female Fossa gives birth to usually two cubs that are very underdeveloped at birth and do not open their eyes until they are between two and three weeks old. The young are cared for by their mother and begin to eat solid foods by the time they are 12 weeks old, although they are not weaned for another month. Young Fossas take almost two years to grow to their adult size and then another two until they are able to reproduce themselves. They can live for up to 17 years although many reach much younger ages.  
Fossa Diet and Prey
The Fossa is the largest carnivorous mammal on Madagascar and therefore survives by only eating other animals in the surrounding forest. The Fossa has evolved perfectly to the hunting and consumption of Lemurs and in fact, more than half of the Fossa's diet is comprised of them. They will also eat Lizards, Frogs, Rodents, Birds and Reptiles to supplement their diet along with small domestic animal such as pigs and poultry. Hunting under the cover of night means that the dark coat of the Fossa is perfectly camouflaged into the dense surrounding forest so they are able to stalk their prey silently in the trees before leaping powerfully to capture it. The retractable claws of the Fossa means that they are always at their sharpest for catching prey as they are not blunted by being constantly walked on.  
Fossa Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Fossa is the largest natural predator in Madagascar, it has no predators itself (with the rare exception of being snapped up by a stray Crocodile). Humans pose the biggest threat to the Fossa as they have not only hunted them in fear of their livestock but have also completely decimated 90% of the Fossa's once vast natural range. Deforestation for both the logging of the rare tropical timber and also to clear land for agriculture has led to enormous declines in the wild population numbers. Due to the fact that Fossas not only require large solitary home ranges but they are also relatively slow at developing it is thought that numbers will continue to fall.  
Fossa Interesting Facts and Features
The Fossa tends to measure around a metre long with the same length tail on top of that but, in recent years fossils of the now extinct Giant Fossa has been uncovered in the jungles of Madagascar, with the biggest Giant Fossa fossil measured nearly six meters in length and was thought to have weighed around 17 kg! The Fossa is well known for its fierce and dominant approach to hunting as it is extremely rare that it's intended prey will successfully escape. The Fossa can run unbelievably quickly and added to it's incredible agility in the tree tops, once a meal has been spotted the Fossa is very adept at then catching it.   
Fossa Relationship with Humans
When early explorers first arrived on Madagascar there would have been the most incredible array of unique fauna and flora, much of which is now extinct today. Since their arrival Humans have exploited one of the world's largest islands leaving just 10% of the tropical forest cover that would have historically stretched across the country. Land clearance for agriculture such as palm oil plantations and deforestation of the unique tropical trees has led to drastic declines in the population numbers of numerous species, including the elusive Fossa. They are also hunted by farmers who want to protect their livestock and also by some who (unfairly) believe that they are of danger to people.   
Fossa Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Fossa is listed by the IUCN as being an Endangered animal species and therefore one that is at risk of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Although national parks and reserves do exist on the island, none are large enough to ensure that a decent sized Fossa population can survive as each individual requires a relatively large territory and there is simply too much competition. There are thought to be less than 2,500 Fossa individuals left in the wild of Madagascar.
		 	      

	       The Field Spaniel is otherwise known as a Working Cocker Spaniel. A very social breed that can adapt to almost any lifestyle. Whilst they will coexist peacefully with dogs and cats, as a hunting dog, their instincts make them difficult around rabbits, mice, rats and similar animals. They can sometimes be difficult around birds but should adjust if socialised as a puppy.   

Field Spaniels are a family breed and will show affection to all household members. However, they are naturally cautious of strangers making them an excellent watchdog. The Field Spaniel will not handle abusive situations and should never be treated as a guard dog.		 	      

	      The flying squirrel is a medium-sized rodent, closely related to the squirrels found in woodlands and across grasslands around the world. Flying squirrels tend to be slightly larger in size than the common squirrel.  

Despite the name, flying squirrels cannot actually fly, although they can be airborne for a remarkable length of time. Instead of flying, flying squirrels move through the air by gliding (normally between the trees), with the longest recorded glide of a flying squirrel being nearly 90 meters.  

Flying squirrels have a furry, stretchy membrane that stretches between their front and back legs. When the flying squirrel needs to get away quickly, it opens it's arms and legs out and uses the membrane like a parachute. Flying squirrels also have large eyes, and stubby flattened tails.  

There are nearly 50 different species of flying squirrel found in forests around the world. Flying squirrels range in size and colour depending on the species of flying squirrel. The largest species of flying squirrel is the Woolly flying squirrel, which is found in Pakistan and the smallest flying squirrel species is the pygmy flying squirrel, found in the jungles of Borneo and Malaysia.  

Flying squirrels are omnivorous animals meaning that their diet is based on both plant and animal matter. The flying squirrel is a nocturnal animal, so it forages for food under the cover of night as flying squirrels are not able to easily escape the birds of prey that hunt during the day. Flying squirrels eat nuts, seeds, fruits, berries, insects and bird eggs.  

Due to their small size, flying squirrels have numerous natural predators wherever they live in the world. Domestic cats, raccoons, snakes, birds of prey, foxes dogs and coyotes are all primary predators of the flying squirrel.  

Flying squirrels are known to breed twice a year, in the early spring and again in the summer. After a gestation period of roughly 40 days, the female flying squirrel gives birth to between 2 and 7 baby flying squirrels, which are blind and naked when they are born. The baby flying squirrels develop fur and open their eyes when they are about a month old. The young flying squirrels begin to glide and forage with their mother when they are roughly 2 months old.		 	      

	      The fin whale is a large marine mammal that is found throughout ocean waters worldwide. The fin whale is the second largest whale in the world behind the blue whale, and also the second largest animal on Earth (obviously after the blue whale again).  

The fin whale has a long and slender body which can grow to lengths of more than 20 meters. The body of the fin whale is generally blue or grey in colour and slighter lighter on the underside of the fin whale.   

There are two different species of fin whale which are the Northern fin whale and the Antarctic fin whale. As their names suggest, the Northern fin whale is generally found in the Northern Hemisphere and the Antarctic fin whale, in the Southern Hemisphere.  

Both fin whale species are very similar in appearance but the Antarctic fin whale tends to be larger in size than the Northern fin whale. Fin whales are found in both cold and tropical waters around the world, although they are most commonly found in the more temperate regions.  

The fin whale is a carnivorous animal, that feeds by filtering food out of the water using the specially designed plates in its mouth (like a blue whale). The fin whale eats fish, krill, plankton, squid and crustaceans by simply opening its enormous mouth and swimming at faster speeds.  

Due to its sheer size, the fin whale has no real predators within its natural environment as ocean predators simply don't compare in size. Humans are the greatest threat to the fin whale, as they have been hunted over the years to near extinction. The new-born fin whale calves are also sometimes attacked by large sharks.  

Fin whales breed in the cold winter months, after which the female fin whales migrate south to the warmer, safer waters where she can nurse her young. The fin whale calf is born after a gestation period last is nearly a year long, and feeds on his mothers milk until he is around 7 months old and able to start hunting in the water.		 	      

	      Dwarf Crocodile Classification and Evolution
The Dwarf Crocodile is a small species of crocodile that is natively found in the rainforests of West Africa. The Dwarf Crocodile is the smallest species of crocodile in the world and is also one of the most distinctive with a short, broad snout and tough scales that cover their entire black body (most crocodiles do not have such armoured scales on their underside). These characteristics have led to the Dwarf Crocodile being known by a number of different names including the Broad-Snouted Crocodile, the Bony Crocodile and the Black Crocodile. There are two recognised species of Dwarf Crocodile which are the West African Dwarf Crocodile and the Congo Dwarf Crocodile which differ slightly in not just their location, but also in their appearance and behaviour. Although Dwarf Crocodiles are commonly found in parts of their natural range, their numbers in others have declined mainly due to habitat loss and hunting.  
Dwarf Crocodile Anatomy and Appearance
The Dwarf Crocodile rarely grows to more than 1.6 meters in length with the largest known individuals reaching a maximum length of 1.9 meters. The body of the Dwarf Crocodile is black with a yellowish underside and is protected by tough, armoured scales, which are bony plates that not just protect it from injury but also prevent the animal from getting burnt by the hot sun. The Dwarf Crocodile has a number of adaptations that aid it when in the water including their vertically flattened, muscular tail that is used to propel their bodies when swimming and webbing between their toes which helps them to negotiate the slippery banks. Their eyes and nostrils are located on the top of their heads to enable the Dwarf Crocodile to both see and breathe whilst the rest of it's body is submerged, allowing it to both watch for prey and predators almost completely hidden.  
Dwarf Crocodile Distribution and Habitat
The Dwarf Crocodile is found throughout a number of different countries in West Africa including Angola, Cameroon, Congo, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra Leone although the populations vary drastically in number between the regions. Dwarf Crocodiles tend to be found in slow-moving rivers in areas of dense rainforest along with swamps, permanent pools of water and seasonal floodplains. Despite being specially adapted to life in the water, Dwarf Crocodiles also spend a lot of time on land where they dig burrows in the river bank to rest during the day. They are however, severely threatened by the loss of their habitats throughout much of their natural range primarily in the form of deforestation for logging, to clear land for agriculture and make way for growing human settlements.  
Dwarf Crocodile Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Dwarf Crocodile is a nocturnal and generally solitary animal that hunts for small prey both in the water and on the banks in the dark. During the day they rest in burrows which are dug into the ground of the river bank and are accessed through entrance and exit tunnels which can be several meters long. If however, they are unable to find a suitable burrowing site the Dwarf Crocodile will hide amongst submerged tree roots that hang into the water. The Dwarf Crocodile is a cold-blooded animal meaning that it has to sunbathe to warm it's body up to give it the energy to hunt, and enter the water in order to cool it down. When in the water, Dwarf Crocodiles sink their bodies down below the surface so that only their eyes and nostrils are exposed so they are able to hide from potential predators and ambush unsuspecting prey.   
Dwarf Crocodile Reproduction and Life Cycles
Dwarf Crocodiles tend to breed at the beginning of the wet season (May - June) when a male will mate with a number of females that share his territory. The female then builds a nest by dragging rotting vegetation together to create a mound where she lays up to 20 white, leathery eggs. As the vegetation decomposes it releases heat which helps to keep the eggs warm whilst incubating. Female Dwarf Crocodiles will fiercely guard their eggs from predators until they hatch three months later, when the young call to her and she digs the them out of the mound to help them escape (they are even known to gently roll eggs that haven't yet hatched around in their mouths to crack the shell). The mother then gently picks her young up in her mouth and carries them down to the water ensuring that they get there safely. Although Dwarf Crocodiles are usually independent of their mother very quickly, some are known to stay close to her for at least a few weeks for safety.  
Dwarf Crocodile Diet and Prey
The Dwarf Crocodile is a carnivorous animal meaning that is only eats other animals in order to survive. Fish, birds, crustaceans, frogs and toads make up the bulk of their diet along with the occasional small mammal. Dwarf Crocodiles snap their strong jaws shut to catch their prey which is secured by a powerful bite from their cone shaped, razor-sharp teeth. Unlike a number of other animal species, Dwarf Crocodiles continuously regrow and replace their old teeth which are pushed out by the new ones that develop below. They are however, unable to chew food and so must rely on tearing their prey into pieces that can then be swallowed whole. In areas where seasonal flooding occurs they are known to change their diet depending on the rains, eating more fish that are readily available with the floods and feeding more on crustaceans during the dry season.  
Dwarf Crocodile Predators and Threats
Despite being a powerful predator itself, the small size of the Dwarf Crocodile means that it is an easier target than it's much larger relatives, with other crocodiles being the biggest threat to adults. The young and eggs however, are preyed upon by a number of different animals including birds, mammals and other reptiles despite the fierce guarding of them by their mother. The biggest threat though to Dwarf Crocodiles throughout much of their natural range today is people, primarily in the form of habitat destruction for timber and to use the land for agriculture including creating large plantations of oil palms. Dwarf Crocodiles are also hunted by local people in certain areas for food, with their tough skins then being used in the making of certain local products.  
Dwarf Crocodile Interesting Facts and Features
Like other members of the crocodile family, the Dwarf Crocodile is an ancient species that is thought to have changed very little in the last 65 million years. Their semi-aquatic nature means that they have a number of distinctive features that help them to live and feed in the water including a transparent third eyelid that can be closed to protect their eyes when under the water. They have flaps of skin that can be closed to cover the windpipe and ensure that water doesn't enter their lungs (which means that water doesn't go into their windpipe when they open their mouth to catch prey), along with similar flaps that cover their nostrils and ears. People once thought that Dwarf Crocodiles were cannibals because the mother carries the young in a throat pouch in her mouth, to get them to the water safely.  
Dwarf Crocodile Relationship with Humans
Unlike a number of their larger relatives, the tough, armoured skin of the Dwarf Crocodile has meant that they are not hunted so frequently as other crocodile species, but they are often hunted for their meat by local people in certain areas. Dwarf Crocodiles are also affected heavily by growing levels of human activity throughout much of their natural range as they lose their habitats to forest clearance for the timber industry and to make way for agricultural plantations like palm oil. Along with the growing size of local settlements, the clearance of rainforest to produce grazing for livestock has also meant the loss of large chunks of their once vast natural range and can cause conflict between these reptiles and farmers that fear for their animals.  
Dwarf Crocodile Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Dwarf Crocodile is listed by the IUCN as being an animal that is Vulnerable in it's natural environment with an estimated 25,000 - 100,000 individuals thought to be left in the wild. However, population data is often hard to collect and although they are heavily exploited in certain areas, the Dwarf Crocodile still has quite a wide distribution throughout a number of countries in West Africa. The Dwarf Crocodile is still known to be locally abundant in some areas including parts of Cameroon, however, there have been severe population declines in others primarily due to the drastic loss of vast regions of their natural habitats.

		 	      

	       The dunker is quite a friendly and relaxed dog. It will provide these traits only to owners who will offer lots of activity.		 	      

	      Ducks are medium sized aquatic birds related to other aquatic birds like swans and geese. Ducks differ from swans and geese in their tendency to dive into the water in order catch their food.   

Ducks are omnivorous animals feeding on aquatic plants, small fish, insects and grubs both in and out of water meaning that ducks can easily adapt to different conditions. It is because of the duck's ability to eat such a diverse amount of food both in water and on dry land that makes ducks one of the most widespread birds in the world as they are found on every continent, with the obvious exception of Antarctica.  

A duck's mouth contains rows of tiny plates that line their teeth, to help them filter water out of their beaks without losing food. The duck's advanced water filtering system is similar to the way in which a blue whale feeds in the ocean.  

Contrary to popular belief, not all ducks actually quack! It is generally known that it is only really the females of most duck species that actually make a quacking sound. All ducks actually have a wide range of calls that they use to communicated with one another including whistles and grunts!  

Ducks are particularly vulnerable animals and therefore ducks have many predators around the world. Predators of ducks range from smaller animals such as foxes, wolves and even large fish, to bigger animals including crocodiles and humans.  

Ducks are farmed all over the world for their meat and eggs. Ducks are also farmed on mass for their feathers (known as down) which is most commonly used in bedding, such as duvets and pillows. Domestic duck populations are thought to be at their highest in Asia particularly in China which has the largest market for duck in the world. Many different species of duck are consumed around the world, with the meat of the duck being particularly favourable to humans due to it's rich taste.  

Ducks are also hunted regularly by shooters as ducks are seen to be an easy target. The calm and quiet nature of the duck means that it often takes a long time to react to surrounding noise.   

As with other commercially farmed birds such as chickens, ducks are often intensively farmed and are subjected to terrible conditions. Consumers of duck meat and eggs should only purchase products that are organic or free range, and should try to avoid buying bedding that is made from duck down (feathers).  

Ducks have adapted well to life on the water and along with their special water filtering system in their mouths, ducks also have webbed feet which allows them to travel on the surface of the water with ease. The webbed feet of the duck also make it easier for the duck to walk on the slippery river banks.  

 Duck Foot Facts 

Ducks have webbed feet which allows them to paddle and swim in the water more smoothly.
When ducks swim, they push out their feet back in a kicking motion so that the webbing catches the water and pushing it behind the duck.
On the return stroke, the webbing on the foot of the duck closes up which allows the duck to have less water resistance and to travel faster.
Ducks have a have complex structure of capillaries on their feet which help to regulate the blood flow and stops their feet from getting cold.
The webbed feet of the duck means that the duck cannot walk smoothly on land and instead move around in a waddling motion.

  
 Duck Teeth Facts 

Like other species of bird, ducks do not have teeth but instead uses their beaks to catch their food.
Ducks have rows of thin bristles in their mouths that enable them to filer nutrient particles out of the water.
Ducks use their strong beaks to catch their food and then swallow them whole, using their gizzard to help to digest their food.
The beak of a duck is comprised of an upper and lower jaw that are strong as they are made out of bone.
The duck uses its beak both to feed, and to groom itself as the duck picks the dirt out of its feathers.

		 	      

	       They are very protective of their property and family, friendly with children, but suspicious of any strangers, and can be stubborn.		 	      

	      The dodo was a medium-large sized flightless bird that was discovered on the Island of Mauritius in the 1590s and was declared extinct less than a century later, in 1681. Despite the turkey-sized body of the dodo, it is thought to have been most closely related to smaller birds such as doves and pigeons.  

The dodo inhabited the tropical forests on the tiny island of Mauritius that is situated in the Indian Ocean. Like the neighbouring island of Madagascar, Mauritius broke away from the African continent when the land first split, causing it's wildlife to be extremely unique and the dodo is no exception.  

The dodo had a large body, stubby wings, a small, curved tail, short legs, and a large beak. The feathers of the dodo were grey, black and white in colour and the large curved beak of the dodo is one of it's most distinctive features.  

The dodo is a large sized bird that adapted to a life without large ground-dwelling predators, which led to the dodo to behave quite unusually for a bird. Despite having wings, the dodo was unable to fly as they were quite too small and weak to support the rounded body of the dodo. The dodo was also known to have been fearless of the European invaders which ultimately led to the demise of the species.  

The dodo ate ripe fruit that fell to the ground, eating the fruit of the Tambalacoque tree (which is often called the dodo tree). This long-living tree is now in danger of extinction since it depended on the dodo for its own reproduction; its seed can only germinate (sprout) after going through the digestive system of the dodo (the seed has a very thick coating).  

In it's native forests on the island of Mauritius, the dodo had no natural predators until humans landed at the end of the 16th century. But it wasn't just the humans that hunted this friendly and docile bird, the dodo along with their nests where hunted by the animals that humans brought with them including dogs, cats and monkeys.  

Due to a lack of natural predators, the dodo evolved to making it's nest on the ground where the female dodo would lay a single egg. The incubation period of the dodo egg is estimated to be between 4 and 6 weeks, when the dodo chick would hatch and be reared by it's mother before becoming independent as it grew older.  

The dodo was probably thriving on the tiny, safe-haven of Mauritius before it was taken over by European settlers who hunted and ate the dodo, exploiting it's naturally fearless nature. The animals brought along to the island often ransacked the dodo's vulnerable nests, leading to the extinction of the entire species in just over 80 years of human contact.

		 	      

	      The dugong is a large marine mammal found in the warm waters surrounding Indonesia and Australia. Although the dugong can be found widely throughout the Indo-Pacific tropics, the highest population of the dugong is concentrated around northern Australia.  

Although the dugong looks extremely similar to a manatee, the two are different species. The dugong and the manatee are very closely related and can look almost identical until you look at their tail. The tail of the dugong is typically forked like the tail of a shark, where the tail of the manatee is broad and flat, and slightly more flipper looking than fin looking.  

Dugongs are smaller than manatees with the average adult dugong reaching lengths of around 3 meters and weigh nearly 400 kg, which is about the same as a large cow. The front flippers of the dugong can be as much as half a meter in length.  

It is thought the legends of mermaids may have originated when sailors from a distance glimpsed dugongs swimming in the water, and mistook them for half-human half-fish creatures. These mermaid legends are also said to be true of the dugongs larger cousin, the manatee.  

Dugongs inhabit the warm shallow waters, and despite their large size, dugongs are strictly herbivorous animals and have been referred to as the cows of the sea. Dugongs graze on sea grasses and aquatic plants that grow in abundance in the tropical shallows. Dugongs eat large amounts of sea plants and often leave feeding trails behind of bare sand and uprooted sea grass.  

Female dugongs give birth to just one calf about once every five years. The baby dugong is born underwater in the warm shallows, where the baby dugong is immediately able to swim to the surface in order to take its first breath. When the baby dugong is born, the dugong calf is about a meter in length and weighs about 20 kg. The dugong calf will stay close to its mother until the baby dugong is about 2 years old.  

Dugong populations are constantly decreasing, with many dugongs being accidental victims in large commercial fishing. Dugongs are now considered to be vulnerable animals but the dugong will commonly get older than 70 years of age. Dugong calves will not reach their full size until they are about 15 years old.		 	      

	      Lakes and rivers are created by streams high in the mountains that flow down when evaporated sea water falls as rain. The majority of the water that evaporates out of the ocean disappears into the atmosphere but the rest falls as rain into the freshwater rivers and then back into the sea. Streams, rivers and lakes are home to countless animal species all around the world.  

There are two different types of freshwater habitat which are rivers and lakes. Although lakes are often fed by a small stream or river, they are often enclosed areas and can also include species that are found in nowhere else in the world. Rivers tend to contain large animals that can cope with the strong currents, along with other animals such as as crabs and birds that eat the fish beneath the water's surface.  

The 3 Great Lakes in Africa are home to a surprising variety of one type of fish. Cichlids are colourful tropical fish that are only found in Africa's Great Lakes and in a couple of places in South America. There are an estimated nearly 3,000 different species of cichlid found in these 3 lakes alone, that vary in drastically from one another in size, colour and shape.  

Freshwater rivers are often home a wide variety of species from insects, to amphibians, reptiles, fish, birds and even mammals. Turtles, ducks, otters, crocodiles, catfish, dragonfly and crabs can be found in rivers all around the world, and the Amazon river is even home to the rare and pink, freshwater dolphin. An extraordinary number of different fish species can also been found in rivers and streams all over the world.  

Freshwater lakes also support a huge variety of wildlife from birds and insects that can spend their entire lives in the same place, to larger birds and mammals that appear there momentarily to have a drink or find something to eat. Fish species can often be specially adapted to life in each lake and numerous amphibians can often be found amongst them. Large herbivores such as deer, zebras and giraffe can be found coming to lakes to drink along with primates such as apes and monkeys.  

Freshwater habitats (particularly rivers) can be drastically affected by human activity. Chemicals used in foods and medicines can contaminate the water along with waste water containing pesticides from agriculture. These water changes affect many species that inhabit the water from the plants and fish to the predators that eat them.
		 	      

	       Finnish Spitz are considered to interact well with people, including children. In the home, the Finnish Spitz is a happy member, playing gently with children but maybe be rougher with other dogs. Some Finnish Spitz love other dogs while others are shy, passive or aggressive around other dogs.   

The Finnish Spitz are very loyal to their family, therefore they can be shy or moody around other dogs. Left alone the Finnish Spitz will figure out if another dog is acceptable.  

The breed is prone to barking at anything they perceive as being out of the ordinary. They can be trained to reduce the amount of barking, although the barking does make them good watchdogs.		 	      

	       Dogos are known for being extremely loyal and affectionate with their families and crave attention from their owners. They are excessively tolerant of children due to their high pain tolerance, derived from selective breeding to be a big game hunter.   

They are protective of what they perceive as their territory and will guard it against any intruder. They get along with other dogs as long as they have been properly socialized, but will usually not tolerate another dog trying to assert dominance over them and might not coexist peacefully with another dominant breed of dog.   

However, dog aggression is not desirable in the Dogo Argentino, as it is at odds with its intended purpose as a pack hunter.  

Dogo Argentinos are accomplished big-game hunters, and are still widely used today in a variety of ways from tracking, search and rescue, Schutzhund training, general police work including narcotics detection, military, and family dog. They are even occasionally used as guide dogs, or as service animals.		 	      

	       A retriever is a type of gun dog that retrieves game for a hunter. Generally gun-dogs are divided into three major classifications: retrievers, flushing spaniels, and pointing breeds.  

 Retrievers were bred primarily to retrieve birds or other prey and return them to the hunter without damage. Although spaniels and some pointing breeds routinely retrieve game, and many retrievers are skilled in finding game, retrievers are distinguished in that non-slip retrieval is their primary function.  

 As a result, retriever breeds are bred for soft mouths and a great willingness to please, learn, and obey. A soft mouth refers to the willingness of the dog to carry game in its mouth without biting into it. Hard mouth is a serious fault in a hunting dog and is one that is very difficult to correct. A hard-mouthed dog renders game unpresentable or at worst inedible.		 	      

	      The frigatebird (also known as the man of war bird and the pirate bird) is a species of sea-bird found in warmer, tropical regions. Frigatebirds are thought to be most closely related to pelicans giving rise to another name for them, which is the frigate pelican.  

The frigatebird is a large species of sea-bird that has an enormous wingspan that often exceeds two meters in length. Male frigatebirds are most commonly known for their red throat pouch, which are inflated to attract female frigatebirds during the mating season.  

Frigatebirds are generally black in colour although some frigatebirds look slightly browner than black. Outside of the mating season, male frigatebirds and female frigatebirds can be easily identified due to the fact that the female frigatebird has a white patch on her underside.  

There are five different species of frigatebird that inhabit tropical islands and coasts, with the majority of frigatebird individuals being found in the Pacific Ocean although some do inhabit areas of both the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. The magnificent frigatebird, the Ascension frigatebird, the Christmas frigatebird, the great frigatebird and the lesser frigatebird are the five different frigatebird species.  

The frigatebird has the largest wingspan in comparison to it's body of any bird species in the world, so the frigatebird is naturally an adept pilot. Frigatebirds have been known to stay in the air for nearly a whole week and only land on the rocky cliffs to breed or to rest.   

Unlike the incredible flying ability of the frigatebird, the frigatebird is unable to walk that well and cannot swim. Frigatebirds have a diet that consists of marine animals and so frigatebirds have to pluck their prey from the water without landing as they are unable to take-off from a flat surface such as water.  

Frigatebirds are sea-birds and therefore tend to have a meat-based carnivorous diet. Firgatebirds primarily eat fish including flying fish, along with crustaceans, molluscs and even small sea turtles.  

Due to the large size of the frigatebird and the fact that the frigatebird spends the majority of it's life in the air, frigatebirds have few natural predators with humans being the main predator of the frigatebird. Introduced species such as rats, stoats and domestic cats are commonly found hunting frigatebirds and their eggs on the land.   

Female frigatebirds lay only one egg every couple of years as the frigatebird chicks taken an average of 9 months to rear. Both the male frigatebird and the female frigatebird feed their chick for the first few months but the male frigatebird will then leave the colony leaving the female frigatebird to do the rest of the rearing by herself.		 	      

	       The French Bulldog is a gentle breed that typically has a happy-go-lucky attitude. Like many other companion dog breeds they require close contact with humans. They have fairly minimal exercise needs, but do require at least daily walks.  

 Their calm nature makes them excellent choices for apartment dwellers, as does their usually sensible attitude towards barking. As a flat faced breed, it is essential that owners understand that French Bulldogs cannot live outdoors.  

 Their bulk and their compromised breathing system makes it impossible for them to regulate their temperature efficiently. In addition, Frenchies are top heavy and therefore have a difficult time swimming. Be cautious when exercising your Frenchie during hot or humid weather, as well.		 	      

	       Eskimo Dog's temperament reflects its original work and environment. It is loyal, tough, brave, intelligent, and alert. It is affectionate and gentle, and develops a deep bond with its owner and is intensely loyal.   

Canadian Eskimo Dogs are best suited as companions for adults, rather than children, as they can be over-excitable. When used as sled dogs, they were often required to forage and hunt for their own food.  

 Consequently, many Canadian Eskimo Dogs have stronger prey drive than some other breeds. Owing to their original environment, they take pure delight in cold weather, often preferring to sleep outside in cold climates. Like most spitz breeds they can be very vocal.		 	      

	      Fishing Cat Classification and Evolution
The Fishing Cat is a small to medium sized feline that is natively found throughout a number of countries in south-east Asia. Unlike other cat species found around the world (with the notable exception of the Jaguar) the Fishing Cat spends most of it's life in areas of dense vegetation close to water and is an excellent swimmer. However, despite it's water-loving lifestyle, the Fishing Cat is not particularly specially adapted to it's semi-aquatic lifestyle with small teeth that are not well designed for holding onto slippery prey and only slight webbing between the toes on it's front paws to help it to negotiate the slippery banks. Although the Fishing Cat is known to still be locally common in certain areas, the global population is severely under threat as it is thought that nearly 50% of their specific wetland habitats are under threat from increasing levels of Human activity throughout much of it's natural range.   
Fishing Cat Anatomy and Appearance
The Fishing Cat has a stocky and powerful body that is quite long in comparison to it's short legs. Their short and coarse coat of fur is olive-grey in colour and patterned with solid black spots that run the length of it's body and often turn into black lines along the spine. The Fishing Cat has a short and flattened tail that is marked with black rings and can be used by the animal when swimming as it works in a similar way to a rudder on a boat, steering the Fishing Cat in the right direction through the water. Their small feet are slightly webbed but not any more so than many other feline species, but one of the biggest differences between the Fishing Cat and it's relatives is that their claws are not fully retractable with the tips still sticking out slightly from the protective sheath of skin on their toes (most felines are able to completely retract their claws to prevent them from becoming blunt when they are not in use). Fishing Cats have quite broad heads in relation to their body with small, rounded ears that are black on the back and have a distinctive white spot in the centre.  
Fishing Cat Distribution and Habitat
The Fishing Cat is natively found throughout a number of countries in south-east Asia including Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Cambodia, China, India, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam along with the Indonesian Islands of Java and Sumatra. Although the Fishing Cat appears to have a wide geographical range, due to the fact that they prefer dense, wetland habitats they are only found in certain regions throughout these countries. Ideally, the Fishing Cat inhabits wetland areas where there is plenty of dense vegetation to provide cover both from predators but also to hide from potential prey, and can be found in a variety of aquatic regions that include mangrove swamps, rivers, lakes, marshes, reed beds and areas of forest close to streams. They are however, severely threatened throughout much of their natural range as wetlands are drained for agriculture or often polluted by industry in the area. It is thought that 98% of the globally significant wetlands throughout south-east Asia are under threat and could even disappear completely.  
Fishing Cat Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Fishing Cat is a nocturnal and solitary hunter that rests amongst dense vegetation during the day before heading to the water at night to find food. They are incredibly strong and capable swimmers and have been known to swim vast distances often in pursuit of a fish trying to get away. Fishing Cats are largely territorial animals that occupy home ranges of up to 22 square kilometres (although the range of a female is often much less), with that of a male Fishing Cat overlapping the patches occupied by a number of females in the area. Fishing Cats are known to be relatively adaptable animals and in certain areas are even known to live around city suburbs with little vegetation and close to Human settlements. Their incredibly elusive and nocturnal lifestyle means that they are often hard to spot but are susceptible to being trapped, poisoned or accidentally caught in snares that are set-up to catch other forest animals, such as Deer.  
Fishing Cat Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although little is really known about their breeding or social behaviour in the wild, mating is thought to take place in January and February when a female Fishing Cat will call to males in the area, indicating that she is ready to mate. After a gestation period that lasts for between 60 and 70 days, she gives to birth to 1 - 4 kittens that weigh about 150 grams and are born blind. Fishing Cat kittens develop relatively slowly at first putting on an average of 11 grams in weight a day and don't open their eyes until they are just over two weeks old. At around 50 days old the kittens are able to start eating meat but are not weaned for at least another couple of months. Fishing Cats reach their adult size and are able to breed by the time they are nine months old and become completely independent of their mother about a month later when they leave to establish a territory of their own. Although it is thought that it is just the female who rears her young in the wild, captive males have been observed helping her to raise their offspring.  
Fishing Cat Diet and Prey
The Fishing Cat is a carnivorous animal that only hunts and consumes other animals in order to acquire all of the nutrients that it needs to survive. As it's name suggests, aquatic animals make up the bulk of the Fishing Cat's diet with more than 70% of the food thought to be fish, followed by molluscs, frogs, snails and snakes that are found in or close to the water. Fishing Cats are also known to hunt small mammals such as mice on land and will even target larger prey like civets, dogs and livestock in areas close to settlements. Fishing Cats catch their prey in a couple of different ways but tend to dive into the water once a fish has been spotted before catching it in it's mouth (they are even known to dive into quite deep water and can surface under aquatic birds to catch them). The other method they use involves them sitting at the water's edge either on the bank or a rock and using their paw, they lightly tap the surface in a way that mimics an insect to attract fish. Once it is close enough the Fishing Cat then scoops the fish out of the water using it's paw and flicks it onto dry land before eating it.  
Fishing Cat Predators and Threats
Due to the powerful build and aquatic nature of the Fishing Cat they are thought to have very few (if any) real natural predators in the wild. However, the Fishing Cat is often found in areas where they share their habitats with larger carnivorous mammals such as tigers and bears which could be of threat to them. People are the biggest threat to the Fishing Cat as they have not only destroyed much of their unique wetland homes with increasing levels of industrial and commercial activity but they have also been known to hunt Fishing Cats over the years for their meat and fur. Despite now being a protected animal species, large seizures of Fishing Cat skins at local markets still occur which indicates that poachers are still decimating populations, particularly in certain areas. Another problem for Fishing Cats caused by Humans is the fact that in areas close to growing settlements, locals are often overfishing in the nearby lakes and rivers which means that the food available for the Fishing Cats is also declining fast.  
Fishing Cat Interesting Facts and Features
The Fishing Cat was first described scientifically by Bennet in 1833 and was given it's scientific name with the last past meaning "civet-like". Although they are not closely related at all, the Fishing Cat has a long, stocky body with short legs and a short tail which makes it look remarkably similar to these small carnivores. Although Fishing Cats tend to be most commonly found in a variety of watery lowland habitats, they are also known to inhabit areas at elevations of up to 5,000 ft depending on the waterways in the area (a small population is actually found in parts of the Himalayas). The Fishing Cat is classed as part of the Leopard Cat lineage which means that it's ancestors would have evolved around 6 million years ago. Other members of this feline group include the Leopard Cat itself, the Pallas Cat and the Flat-Headed Cat, to which the Fishing Cat is most closely related.   
Fishing Cat Relationship with Humans
Due to the fact that the Fishing Cat is seldom seen in the wild as they are nocturnal and their preferred habitats would have been quite inaccessible to people for some time, until the middle of the last century they were locally common throughout much of their native regions. However, the hunting of them by people for their meat and fur has obliterated populations in many areas and even today, they are still illegally killed in their hundreds to sell their skins onto the black market. The biggest problem facing the Fishing Cat though, is the drastically increasing levels of Human activity in their natural environments that is severely affecting not just the Fishing Cats, but also the incredibly unique and bio-diverse wetland habitats in which they live. Water draining for agriculture and to make way for roads, growing Human settlements and high levels of industry that pollutes the water with toxic substances has reduced their once vast natural range by nearly 50%.  
Fishing Cat Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Fishing Cat is listed by the IUCN as an animal species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and could therefore be threatened with extinction in the not too distant future. The biggest threat to the Fishing Cat is habitat loss with many of their remaining pockets of wetland homes now considered to be protected areas (illegal activity in these areas though is still contributing to the loss of species in these regions). Conservation projects have been set up in a number of areas to protect both the Fishing Cats and their unique wetland habitats and the hunting and trade in the species is now illegal. Poaching however, still continues with skins still being seized from markets in the far east.
		 	      

	      The Emperor tamarin is a small species of monkey found in the forests of South America. The Emperor tamarin was named because of it's elegant white moustache, which is thought to resemble that of German emperor Wilhelm II.  

There are two subspecies of Emperor tamarin found in the south west Amazon Basin. The bearded emperor tamarin inhabits the rainforests throughout Brazil and Peru, and the black-chinned emperor tamarin that actually has no beard and is distributed throughout the rainforests of Brazil, Peru, and Bolivia.  

The Emperor tamarin is grey in colour, with black hands and feet and a brown tail. The distinctive and extremely impressive bearded of the Emperor tamarin monkey is white in colour.  

The Emperor tamarin is a diurnal primate which means that the Emperor tamarin is most active during the day and rests in the safety of the tree tops during the night. Emperor tamarins are very sociable animals and inhabit their territory with their rest of the Emperor tamarin troop which generally have between 2 and 8 members. Emperor tamarin troops are led by the eldest female and have predominantly male members.  

The Emperor tamarin is an omnivorous animal meaning that the Emperor tamarin hunts both plants and other animals in order to survive. Fruits, insects and green plants make up the majority of the Emperor tamarin's diet along with small rodents and reptiles, eggs and tree sap.  

Due to the relatively small size of the Emperor tamarin, it has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Wild cats, dogs, snakes and birds of prey are primary predators of the Emperor tamarin, along with humans who are destroying their natural habitat.  

The Emperor tamarin usually breeds between the months of April and July, when the female Emperor tamarin will give birth to twins (or a single infant) after a four to five month gestation period. The male Emperor tamarins carry and groom infants more than the females do, but females clean the infant more than the males do. Older siblings are also known to contribute to infant care, although infants prefer to be carried by their parents than by their siblings. Infant Emperor tamarins become mobile at 2 to 5 weeks, and begin eating solid food at 4 to 7 weeks. They are independent at 10 to 18 weeks and are fully weaned at 15 to 25 weeks. Sexual maturity is attained at about 2 years of age.  

Today, although not considered to be a species that is in imminent danger from extinction, the Emperor tamarin population numbers are rapidly declining due to deforestation causing habitat loss in their natural environment.
		 	      

	                         	      

	      The fennec fox is a small species of canine found in the dry, sandy regions of the African Sahara Desert. The fennec fox is most well known for it's large ears which can be half as long as the body of the fennec fox.  

The fennec fox is the smallest fox in the world, with fennec fox individuals ranging from 24 cm to 41 cm in length. The fennec fox also has a remarkably long tail which ranges in length from 18 cm to 31 cm depending on the size of the fennec fox individual.  

The fennec fox has thick fur which helps to keep the fennec fox cool in the day and warm during cold nights. The large ears of the fennec fox help to regulate the body heat of the fennec fox helping to keep the fennec fox cool during the hot daytime hours. This is done by blood running near the skin in the ear.  This helps dissipate the heat.  

The fennec fox is an omnivorous animal and it's diet mainly consists of insects, rodents, plants and fruits along with small reptiles and the occasional egg. The fennec fox has sandy coloured fur which helps to keep the fennec fox camouflaged when it is hunting. The sandy colour of the fennec fox's fur also helps the fennec fox remain unseen from predators.  

A female fennec fox is able to breed twice a year but most female fennec foxes only breed once a year. The female fennec fox gives birth to 3 to 4 baby fennec foxes, known as kits. The fennec fox kits feed on the milk from the mother fennec fox for about a month while the mother fennec fox keeps male fennec foxes out of the den. When the kits are old enough they start to hunt with their mother.  

Fennec foxes are known to live in small communities together of up to 10 fennec fox individuals. Fennec foxes are nocturnal animals meaning that they sleep in their burrows during the day and hunt for food above ground when it is dark. 		 	      

	       Cockers are renowned for their stubborn temper but can be easily trained and make a good medium-sized family pet. They will often bond strongly to an individual person in a family.  

 Cockers are noted for their optimism, intelligence and adaptability. The breed is extremely loyal and affectionate, bonding very well with the family members.

It has been proposed that there is a link between coat colour and temperament. This link could be the colour pigment melanin, which is bio chemically similar to chemicals that act as transmitters in the brain.  

 Cocker Spaniel behavior has been studied in more detail than any other breed.		 	      

	       Though hardy, as well as hard-working, the breed has the typical spaniel traits of being easy to train, gentle, and affectionate.  

 The dogs are known to have a fun-loving quality and in France are said to be le petit clown des marais (the little clown of the marshes).		 	      

	      The Entlebucher mountain dog is the smallest of the four breeds of Senenhund, native to parts of the Swiss Alps. The Entlebucher is a herd dog and has been used on farms to assist in the herding of sheep and cattle.  

The Entlebucher mountain dog is part of the Sennenhund family of dogs that include the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, the Bernese Mountain Dog, the Appenzeller and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog, all of which are similar in colour and temperament but vary in size. The Sennenhund dogs were originally used to assist in general farmwork but they are also used as mountain rescue dogs in some areas of the Swiss mountains today.  

The Entlebucher is a square and sturdy medium-sized dog that has the distinctive coat colours, shared by all four of the Sennenhund breeds. The Entlebucher mountain dog is black, white and tan and has large, flat feet to support its weight.  

As with all dogs, the Entlebucher should be introduced to dogs and people early on in life so that it becomes more relaxed around them. The Entlebucher mountain dog is said be devoted towards those familiar to it and is good-natured, although the Entlebucher is known to be suspicious of strangers.  

The Entlebucher mountain dog grows to about 50 cm tall but some individuals can be slightly smaller. The Entlebucher has an average lifespan of around 12 years but some have been known to live much longer.		 	      

	      The Javan rhinoceros (also known as the lesser one-horned rhinoceros and the Sunda rhinoceros) is a small species of rhinoceros native to parts of south-east Asia. The Javan rhinoceros is thought to be most closely related to the Indian rhinoceros, both of which only have one horn.  

The Javan Rhino primarily inhabits dense lowland rain forests, tall grass and reed beds that are plentiful with rivers, large floodplains, or wet areas with many mud wallows. The range of Javan rhinoceros once stretched from Bengal, through south-east Asia and down to Sumatra but today, the Javan rhinoceros is only found in Vietnam and on the island of Java.  

The Javan rhinoceros only has one horn which is much smaller than those of other rhinoceros species, growing to an average length of 25cm. The Javan rhinoceros uses its small horn for defence, intimidation, digging up roots and breaking branches during feeding. The horn of the Javan rhinoceros is made from a substance called keratin and is therefore very strong. The horn of the Javan rhinoceros is used in ancient medicine and many Indian rhinos have been illegally poached for them.   

The Javan rhinoceros has relatively poor eyesight, relying more on hearing and smell to detect what is going on around them. The ears of the Javan rhinoceros possess a relatively wide rotational range to detect sounds and an excellent sense of smell to readily alert them to the presence of predators.  

The Javan rhinoceros is a herbivorous animal meaning that it sustains itself on a purely plant based diet. Javan rhinos browse the densely vegetated sub-tropical forest for leaves, flowers, buds, fruits, berries and roots which they dig up from the ground using their horns.  

Due to it's large size, the Javan rhino's only real predator in the wild are large wild cats such as tigers that will prey on the Javan rhino calves and weak individuals. Humans are the biggest threat to the Javan rhinoceros as they have been hunted to the brink of extinction for their horns.  

The Javan rhinoceros is solitary animal and only comes together with other Javan rhinos to mate. The female Javan rhinoceros gives birth to a single calf after a gestation period that is over a year long. The Javan rhinoceros calf remains with it's mother until it is at least 2 years old and big enough to become independent.  

Today, the Javan rhinoceros has been poached for it's horns to the extent that it is on the brink of extinction. Hunting of the Javan rhinoceros along with habitat loss in their native regions have led to there being only a handful of Javan rhinoceros individuals left in the jungles of south-east Asia today.
		 	      

	      Jaguar Classification and Evolution
The Jaguar is the largest feline on the American continent, and is the only one of the world's 'big' cats to be found in the New World. Jaguars are closely related to Leopards and have a number of similar characteristics including the distinctive spotted pattern on their fur. The Jaguar is the third biggest Cat in the world behind the Tiger and the Lion and is well known for it's immense power and agility. In fact, the name Jaguar is said to come from the Native American word yaguar which means "he who kills with one leap". Despite their incredible power however, Jaguars have been hunted through the ages mainly for their staggeringly beautiful fur. Although hunting for Jaguar fur is now prohibited, population numbers have declined throughout much of their natural range, with Jaguars having completely disappeared from a number of areas.  
Jaguar Anatomy and Appearance
The Jaguar is a large and muscular animal that has a heavier and sturdier body than that of a Leopard. They have a large, broad head with jaws so strong that they are said to have the most powerful bite of all the world's Cats. Jaguars tend to have a cover of either tan or dark yellow fur, which is dotted with darker rose-like patterns that are similar to those of a Leopard (besides the fact that they have dark spots in the middles). Known as rosetting, the pattern on the Jaguar's fur is unique to each animal much like fingerprints are unique to individual people, and despite it's beauty, it actually acts as the perfect camouflage in the surrounding jungle. This camouflage turns out to be so vital to their chances of survival, that those Jaguars found in the rainforest are darker in colour and often smaller than those found in more open areas.  
Jaguar Distribution and Habitat
The Jaguar is indigenous to the Western Hemisphere, where it primarily inhabits the tropical rainforests of Central and South America. Although the historic range of the Jaguar stretched across the whole continent and even into the southern states of the USA, they are today confined to remote pockets of rainforest particularly in the moist Amazon Basin.  Jaguars tend to prefer thick, dense, moist jungle where there is plenty of cover in order to successfully hunt and then ambush prey. They are nearly always found close to water and prefer either permanent swampland or seasonally flooded forests. The Jaguar has been severely affected by habitat loss throughout much of it's natural range along with poachers who shoot them when they get too close to the growing Cattle ranches.  
Jaguar Behaviour and Lifestyle
Although this elusive animal spends most of it's time either resting in the safety of the trees or hunting in the dense undergrowth, Jaguars love to be in the close proximity of water such as floodplains and slow-moving rivers (which is rare amongst felines), and they rarely venture into arid, more desert-like areas. The Jaguar is an excellent swimmer and can move through the water at surprising speed particularly when in pursuit of prey. As with many other Cat species, the Jaguar is a solitary animal with the exception of the first couple of years that Jaguar cubs spend with their mother. Males are particularly territorial and although their home range will overlap those of a number of females, they will defend their patch fiercely from other males. Jaguars mark their territories with urine, by scratching marks onto trees, and asserting themselves with growling vocal calls.  
Jaguar Reproduction and Life Cycles
Despite the fact that most Jaguar cubs are generally born between the months of December and March, it is not uncommon for them to be born at other times of the year. During the mating season, the female Jaguar will use loud vocal calls to attract a male into her territory. Female Jaguars typically give birth to two or three cubs. Once their cubs are born however, the female Jaguar will not tolerate the male in her territory as she becomes very protective of her young at this stage. Jaguar cubs are born blind and gain their sight after about two weeks. They are weaned by their mother when they are around 3 months old, although the  cubs will rely on their mother to hunt and provide for them until they are about 6 months old. At 6 months, the Jaguar cubs will then start to accompany the female jaguar on hunts but will not venture out on their own until they are one or two years old and have established a territory for themselves.  
Jaguar Diet and Prey
The majority of a Jaguar's hunting is done down on the ground but they are also known to hunt for prey both in the water and from the trees, from where the Jaguar can easily ambush it's prey often killing it with one powerful bite. Medium sized mammals make up the majority of the Jaguar's diet including Deer, Capybara, Peccaries and Tapirs, which they stalk in silence through the dense jungle. When in the water, Jaguars hunt Turtles, Fish and even small Caiman when the opportunity presents itself. The Jaguar is known to be a formidable and aggressive hunter and is thought to eat more than 80 different animal species in order to supplement it's diet. With growing Human settlements, the Jaguar has also been blamed by ranch owners for stealing their livestock, particularly in areas that encroach on the Jaguar's territory.   
Jaguar Predators and Threats
Due to the large size and dominant nature of the Jaguar, there are no other wild animals that are known to actually consider it as prey. Once found throughout the South American continent, they have been hunted by Humans mainly for their fur which has led to drastic declines in Jaguar population numbers everywhere. Despite now having legal protection and a reduction in the hunting of them for their fur, the Jaguar is at increasing risk from loss of habitat mainly in the form of deforestation to make way for agriculture or growing Human settlements, which means these large and majestic animals are being pushed into more remote regions of their native range.   
Jaguar Interesting Facts and Features
 Jaguars have the strongest bite force of all Cats and like other 'big' Cats they can roar (other Cats cannot). The Jaguar is undoubtedly a strikingly beautiful animal, and has naturally caught the attention of both scientists and hunters alike, with many individuals sadly having been poached for their distinctively patterned fur. Although Jaguars usually have yellowish coloured fur, other colours are also known including black and white. As with black Leopards, they are not completely black as you can still see the spotting (although faint) in strong sunlight. Jaguars are said to be able to cross-breed with both Leopards and Lions.  A Lepjag was produced by the film industry to produce a Cat that had the appearance of a Jaguar but was easier to handle with the temperament of a Leopard.  He lives in retirement now in a Big Cat sanctuary, and like other 'big' cat hybrids he is sterile.  
Jaguar Relationship with Humans
Historically, Jaguars have featured throughout Native American culture, as these people were well aware of the power of this dominant predator with some believing that the Jaguar was the lord of the underworld. They are feared by Humans who inhabit areas close to the jungle and are also often blamed by ranch owners for their missing livestock. Although Jaguars hold the reputation for being very aggressive, unprovoked attacks on Humans are rare. Jaguars have been severely affected by deforestation throughout much of Central and South America, primarily for agriculture with the highest numbers now found in the Amazon Basin.  
Jaguar Conservation Status and Life Today
The Jaguar was once found from the tip of South America right up to and beyond, the Mexico-USA border but hunting for their fur and habitat loss has led to drastic declines in population numbers. They are today very, very rarely seen in the USA and are considered endangered throughout much of their natural range, although the Jaguar is listed by the IUCN Red List as an animal that is Threatened in it's surrounding environment. Although the exact population number is unknown, there are an estimated 15,000 Jaguar individuals left roaming the rainforest today.
		 	      

	      Island habitats can be found all over the world and can either be the result of land breaking away from large land masses, or islands can be the result of volcanoes erupting on the sea floor. Due to their generally isolated nature, the wildlife on islands often results in animals being unique in both their appearance and behaviour.  

Due to the fact that islands are found all over the world, numerous different habitats can be found upon them including rainforests, deserts, swamps and tundra. However, due to the fact that island habitats are often isolated from other land habitats, animal species that are found inhabiting islands are often very different to their counterparts found in mainland habitats. Island habitats can even cause some animal species to develop completely separately from animal species in the rest of the world.  

New Zealand is thought to have broken away from Australia when the continents broke-up millions of years ago, which has led to animal species being found on New Zealand and no-where else in the world. Flightless birds such as the kiwi and the kakapo, adapted to a flightless lifestyle as there were no large predators on the islands to try and escape from. However, these adaptations have had devastating consequences for these bird species as humans moved in bringing predators such as stoats and cats with them, which almost completely wiped out the kakapo population.  

Due to the fact that island habitats are limited in size and resources, island ecosystems are fragile and easily disturbed by introducing new species and general human activity. Island animals can quickly become endangered or even completely extinct if their habitat is destroyed or what they eat disappears, as there is nowhere else for them to go. The kakapo and the tuatara both from New Zealand, have been among the most affected island animals, both of which are severely endangered and very close to becoming extinct as a species.  

Other island animals that are found nowhere else in the world, include the lemurs found on the island of Madagascar, the kiwi found on New Zealand, the tree kangaroo found in Papua New Guinea and the orang-utan which is found on the Indonesian islands of Borneo and Sumatra. Orang-utans have been particularly affected by human activity as mass deforestation is under way in south-east Asia in order to make room for palm oil plantations, meaning that numerous orang-utans loose their homes and many are even captured by plantation owners and workers to sell into the exotic (and illegal) pet trade.  

The conservation of island habitats has now reached breaking point as more care is having to be taken over the habitats of the animals that exist on islands. The kakapo can no longer be found on mainland New Zealand, as they have been isolated on nearby Codfish island in order to try to protect and conserve one of the world's rarest birds. Money made from eco-tourism on places like the Galapagos Islands also helps to fund conservation projects to protect the native wildlife. 
		 	      

	       The English Shepherd temperament is the defining characteristic of the breed, with great intelligence and often a unique type of kindness for those in his home, both animals and people. The English Shepherd is often an independent worker.  

 English Shepherds are adaptable and learn routines quickly. Some can be watchful of strangers and are more one-person dogs. However, once he accepts people or children or stock as his own, there are few better caretakers than an English Shepherd.  

The English Shepherd frequently exhibits an independent, bossy or enforcer of the rules streak in his temperament. If the dog's desire to enforce order is not channeled and directed to a suitable end by a strong, confident leader, he may exhibit many undesirable behaviors.  

 English shepherds can thrive as companion dogs in many environments. This breed was selected on diverse small family farms in the past and has been selected to work in a partnership arrangement with his master.		 	      

	      Falcons are medium sized birds of prey found all across the world although falcons tend to prefer the more temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere. Falcons are best known for their ruthlessness and their incredible flying abilities.  

Falcons have tapered wings that allow the falcon to change direction extremely quickly especially when compared to other birds. Falcons have been recorded diving at speeds of up to 200mph, meaning they are the fastest creatures on the planet!  

There are more than 40 different species of falcon that can be found all around the world such as the peregrine falcon and the black falcon. Falcons vary in size from 25cm tall to more than 60cm tall, but the height of the falcon depends on the species. The peregrine falcon is the most common bird of prey in the world and is found on every continent besides Antarctica.  

Falcons are birds of prey and are therefore known for their incredible hunting skills and being a ruthless, dominant predator within their environment. Falcons hunt their prey from the skies above and swoop down through the air to catch it once they have spotted a meal with their incredible eyesight. Falcons hunt all kinds of small animals like mice, frogs, fish and falcons will even catch small birds in the air.  

Due to the large size, speed and alertness of the falcon, the falcon has few natural predators and even fewer that are actually airborne. Humans and wolves tend to be the main predators of the falcon on the ground and eagles and even large owls have been known to hunt the smaller species of falcon (and of course the young and inexperienced falcons) in the air. The eggs and chicks of the falcon are particularly vulnerable to being eaten.  

Falcons have adapted in many ways to maximise their chances of survival in the skies. The falcon has tapered wings that allow the falcon to be more agile; incredibly acute eyesight which enables the falcon to spot prey on the ground far below; an aerodynamic body shape means that the falcon glides through the air more easily and a sharp pointed beak helps the falcon to grab and eat it's prey more effectively.  

Falcons nest on high ground such as mountains and cliffs and in the tops of tall trees. This means that the vulnerable eggs and chicks of the falcon are in the safest place possible. Falcons start to breed when they are about a year old. Female falcons lay an average of 3 eggs per clutch and look after their chicks until they are big enough and strong enough to fend for themselves.  

Falcons are generally solitary birds and only really come together to mate. Although falcons are known to stay in the same place, many species of falcon are migratory birds and have been known to travel more than 15,000 miles per year.		 	      

	      The olm (also known as the proteus or the cave salamander) is a blind amphibian exclusively found in the underwater caves of southern European lakes and rivers. The olm is also known as the human fish, which refers to the colour of it's skin.  

The olm is the only species in it's genus and is found inhabiting the waters that flow underground through an extensive limestone region including waters of the Isonzo river basin near Trieste in Italy, through to southern Slovenia, south-western Croatia, and Herzegovina.  

The olm is most well known for living it's entire life in the darkness of the underwater caves, which has led this species to adapt quite strangely to life without light. The most notable feature of the olm is the fact that it is blind as it's eyes are not properly developed and instead it must rely on incredible hearing and smell to understand it's surroundings.  

In a similar way to the axolotl, the olm does not undergo the drastic transformation from young to adult in the same way that frogs and toads do. The olm is also entirely aquatic, hunting, mating, eating and sleeping in the darkness of the underwater caves.  

As with other amphibious animals, the olm is a carnivore meaning that it gets all the nutrition it needs from eating other animals. Small invertebrates are the main source of food for the olm including worms, aquatic insects, larvae and snails.  

Due to the fact that the olm lives out it's life in the safety of a dark, underwater cave, it has fewer predators than it would have living both in the water and on land. Fish and other amphibians are the primary predators of the olm along with the very occasional rodent or bird.  

The olm does not reach sexual maturity until it is between 10 and 15 years old, and after mating, female olms lay from 5 to 30 eggs in between rocks in the water where she can protect them from hungry predators. Olm tadpoles are less than an inch long when they hatch and take on the appearance of the adult olm by the time they are a few months old.  

Today, due to rising levels of water pollution, olm populations are declining meaning that the olm is now considered to be vulnerable to extinction in their native environment.		 	      

	      The opossum is a medium-sized animal that is found inhabiting farmland and forested areas of North America. The opossum is thought to have evolved from the basic marsupials that lived in the jungles of South America.  

The opossum is often referred to as a possum, although there is no direct link between the possums of Australia and the opossum of America. The opossum is the only species of marsupial that is found outside of Australia an it's surrounding islands.  

The opossum is found inhabiting areas of grassland, farmland and woodland in North America. The opossum is also found in urban areas where the opossum can be a pest as it feeds on rubbish, and food that it finds lying around. The opossum is generally found in areas that are close to water.  

The opossum is known to be one of the world's animals that carries rabies and the opossum is much more likely to have the disease than any other animal. Opossums are also thought to have some immunity towards the venom of certain snakes such as pit vipers and rattlesnakes.  

The opossum is an omnivorous animal and will eat almost anything that it can find. Opossums mainly feed on insects, frogs, birds, snakes, small mammals, and earthworms. The opossum is also a great scavenger and will feed on left over kills of other animals along with road-kill.  

The opossum has a number of natural predators in it's environment although the main predators of the opossum are birds of prey such as owls and eagles, dogs, foxes and cats. Humans are one of the main predators of the opossum as they hunt them for meat but the opossum is also commonly killed on the roads by cars.  

As with all marsupials, the female opossum has a pouch in which it rears it's young. The opossum gives birth to as many as 15 babies, which are born in just a couple of weeks. After birth, the opossum babies, crawl up into their mother's pouch where they continue to grow and develop until they are a couple of months old.  

The opossum is an animal that is not threatened with extinction although due to deforestation and habitat loss, opossums are becoming increasingly common in urban and suburban areas.		 	      

	      The kakapo is one of the largest species of parrot in the world with the average adult kakapo growing to around 60 cm in height. The kakapo is the heaviest species of parrot in the world and it is due to this weight that the kakapo is one of the few bird species that is unable to fly.   

The kakapo is native to the forests of New Zealand and the kakapo is not found in the wild anywhere else in the world. The flightless kakapo is thought to have once thrived in it's New Zealand habitat due to the fact that there were no mammals that would hunt the kakapo, and this is thought to be another reason as to why the kakapo has evolved to be a ground dwelling bird.   

Like many other animal species found on New Zealand's islands, the kakapo was of great importance to the local tribes people and the kakapo appears in many local tales and folklore. The native people would hunt the kakapo for it's meat and it's feathers which the local tribesmen would use to make clothes.  

Due to the fact that the defenceless kakapo was hunted by the natives and the introduction of predators such as cats, stouts and rats by the European settlers, the kakapo population has been nearly wiped out with less than 150 kakapo individuals thought to have been left in the wild at the start of 2009. The kakapo is now considered to be one of the most critically endangered animal species on the planet.   

The kakapo has short wings for it's large size and as it cannot fly, the kakapo mainly uses it's wings to help it balance and to support itself when hopping around in the trees. The kakapo also uses it's wings to help break it's fall when the kakapo leaps onto the ground from the lower branches of the trees.  

As with all other species of parrot, the kakapo has large scaly feet with two toes facing forwards and two toes facing backwards. This helps the kakapo to hold onto tree branches when the kakapo is perching on them and along with the long, sharp claws of the kakapo, assists the kakapo in climbing up trees.  

The kakapo has a herbivorous diet, eating seeds, nuts, fruits, berries and flowers. The kakapo is particularly fond of the fruit of the rimu tree and kakapo have been known to feed exclusively on the rimu fruit when they are in abundance.  

The kakapo has large brown eyes and it is because of it's large eyes that the kakapo is often referred to as the owl parrot. The shape of the kakapo's head and beak also contributes to the reason as to why the kakapo is known as the owl parrot.  

During the mating season, male kakapo are often found looking for a female mate and attract one using loud calls and elaborate displays. The kakapo will only breed in years when there is a plentiful supply of food, so the kakapo reproduction process can be a slow one. Kakapo breed later on in life than most birds, with male kakapo reaching sexual maturity at around the age of 5 and female kakapo can be nearly 10 years old before they can breed.  

Kakapo tend to live very long lives with the average kakapo individual getting to around 60 years old. It is not uncommon however, for kakapo to get to be much older and many kakapo individuals get to be nearly 100 years old. An interesting fact that makes kakapo so unique is that they are in fact nocturnal, so sleep during the day and move about, eat at night.
		 	      

	      The kangaroo is a marsupial that is indigenous to Australia and  and the Indonesian island of New Guinea. Although kangaroos are often seen congregating in groups, kangaroos are generally fairly solitary mammals but kangaroos are also known for being sociable animals when with other kangaroos.  

Kangaroos have a deep pouch on their front in which to carry their young. A baby kangaroo is called a joey. Kangaroos eat plants, nuts, berries and insects that the kangaroos rummage for in the arid wilderness.  

Kangaroos are most well known for their ability to jump a phenomenal distance. The kangaroo is the largest of the marsupials, a group an animals that includes koalas and the common brushtail possum. Marsupials are distinguished by the pouch that these animals have on their bellies, in which they carry their young.   

There are three main species of kangaroo in existence today and these are the red kangaroo, which is the largest and most well-known of all the kangaroo species. The Eastern grey kangaroo is known to be the heaviest species of kangaroo despite the fact that the red kangaroo is taller. The western grey kangaroo can be found in large numbers and can be anywhere in colour from grey to brown. The kangaroo is the national animal and emblem of Australia.  

Kangaroos have large, flat feet which the kangaroos use in order to aid their movement which the kangaroos do by hopping. Despite the fact that kangaroos do not move about in the conventional way, kangaroos can often be seen running at high speeds, generally when the kangaroo is scared or being chased by oncoming predators.  

Although kangaroos are not commercially farmed, wild kangaroos are often pursued by human hunters for sport, meat, fur and when farmers are conserving their grazing land for their sheep and cows. This method of sustainable hunting is said to have more health and environmental benefits than that of sheep and cattle.  

The average age of a wild kangaroo tends to be less than 10 years, although some kangaroo individuals in the wild have been known to get closer to 20 years old. Kangaroos generally live to about the age of 23 when the kangaroo is in captivity. 
		 	      

	       The typical Springer is friendly, eager to please, quick to learn and willing to obey.  

 The Springer is an affectionate and easy-going family dog, and its alertness and attentiveness make it the ideal hunting companion. An intelligent dog, active and eager to please, an English Springer is easily incorporated into a family setting.  

Although good with children, it tends to have a moderate energy level. Its long-legged build makes it among the fastest of the spaniels. It has exceptional stamina and needs moderate amounts of activity, to focus its mind and to provide exercise, although this is different for each dog.   

English Springers need plenty of exercise in order to run off their excess energy. These dogs can be slightly skitty or over excitable but adequate walking can prevent this.		 	      

	       Jack Russells are first and foremost a working terrier. Originally bred to bolt fox from their dens during hunts, they are used on numerous ground-dwelling quarry such as groundhog, badger, and red and grey fox.  

 The working Jack Russel Terrier is required to locate quarry in the earth, and then either bolt or hold it in place until they are dug to. To accomplish this the dog must bark and work the quarry continuously.  

 Because the preservation of this working ability is of highest importance to most registered breeders Jack Russells tend to be extremely intelligent, athletic, fearless, and vocal dogs.  

 It is not uncommon for these dogs to become moody or destructive if they are not properly stimulated and exercised as they have a tendency to bore easily and will often create their own fun when left alone to entertain themselves.		 	      

	      The keel billed toucan is also known as the rainbow billed toucan because of the colourful bill that the keel billed toucan has. The keel billed toucan's bill can reach lengths of nearly 20cm long and is around one third of the length of the keel billed toucan's body.  

The keel billed toucan's bill is one of the most colourful beaks in the bird world, and although it is more a green colour than anything else, the keel billed toucan's bill can be a mixture of green, red, yellow and orange in colour.  

As with other species of toucan, the size of the keel billed toucan's bill does not affect the balance of the bird itself as it's bill is made out of a substance called keratin, which is extremely light but still very strong. Keratin is also the substance that makes up human hair and fingernails and can also be found in the teeth of many different animal species.  

The keel billed toucan is native to the jungles of South America where it lives in holes in the trees, often with several other keel billed toucan individuals. In order to ensure that there is enough space for them all, the keel billed toucan group all sleep with their beak and tail tucked under their body to create more room for the other birds.  

The keel billed toucan has a diet that primarily consists of large quantities of different varieties of fruit and berries. However, due to the surprising dexterity of the keel billed toucan's bill, the keel billed toucan also feasts on bird eggs, insects, lizards, and tree frogs should the keel billed toucan feel peckish and in the absence of fruit.  

The keel billed toucan is an extremely sociable bird and is very rarely seen on it's own. As well as nesting together, the keel billed toucan travels in small flocks which usually contain between 6 and 15 keel billed toucan individuals. Despite what people think though, the keel billed toucan is not very good at flying and does most of its moving about by hopping between the tree branches.  

A female keel billed toucan lays between 1 and 5 eggs in a hollow tree, which usually hatch within a few weeks. Both the male and female keel billed toucan incubate the eggs and both keel billed toucan parents also feed and look after their keel billed toucan chicks until they are old enough and strong enough to fend for themselves.  

Large birds of prey and humans are the keel billed toucan's main predators. However, many other animal species prey on the eggs of the keel billed toucan such as other birds, weasels, snakes and the occasional monkey.		 	      

	      The Javanese breed of cat is generally used to refer to Balinese cats that don't have the typical modern Balinese markings or colourings (so cats that are not brown, silver or blue).  

The Javanese cat has soft, shiny fur and can often be found with features closely resembling the Siamese cat. The Javanese cat is a popular household cat around the world and adores human attention.  

The Javanese cat has very social tendencies and therefore can become distressed if they are on their own. The Javanese cat is also known to be a fairly noise breed of domestic cat.  

The calm and devoted temperament of the Javanese cat makes it a very popular breed of cat to be kept as a household pet, as the Javanese cat is often very affectionate towards both humans and other animals.  

Due to the fact that the Javanese cat is directly related to the Siamese cat and the Balinese cat, it has picked defects as well as assets from its ancestors or though today, cats have been bred so extensively that native defects are often bred out of the breed.		 	      

	      Mountain ranges are found all around the world and are the result of plate movement beneath the Earth's crust. Mountains can range in height from a small hill to 8,848 metres, which is the height of Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world. Animals that live in mountainous regions not only have to withstand dramatic temperature changes but also lower oxygen levels.  

There are two main types of mountain range, which are temperate mountains and tropical mountains. Temperate mountains tend to be fairly cold all year round and are much more seasonal that the tropical mountains. In the spring and summer, there is a burst of plant life at high altitude which encourages herbivores up the mountain. Temperate mountains can be found in Europe, Central Asia and North and South America. Tropical mountains have much warmer climates and have a few plants which have specially adapted to live at high altitudes. Tropical mountain ranges can be found in Africa, south-east Asia and South America.   

Wildlife that inhabits mountainous regions has be able to survive successfully at high altitudes. Any creature that lives in the mountains must also be able to cope with changing temperatures. For every 200 meters an animal goes up a mountain, the temperature drops by 1 degree Centigrade. Plants are very seasonal in the mountains and those plants that do occur all year round, such as conifers, must be extremely hardy and able to deal with the cold.  

Many species of hoofed and herbivorous mammal such as goats, deer, sheep and llamas have adapted well to living in the mountains and are often found grazing on ledges and on cliff faces. These herbivores move up the mountain when there is vegetation further up during the spring and summer and move back down again in the autumn when it begins to get colder and food is more scarce. These herbivores obviously attract large predators to inhabit mountainous regions, such as bears, cougars and mountain lions.  

There are also a number of animal species that are not found on the mountains but inside them. Many smaller animal species have adapted to living their lives in the safety of caves and crevices. Caves are popular homes for amphibians such as toads and salamanders, numerous species of insect, and mammals such as bats.  

Although the mountains themselves are standing strong, there are numerous threats to the wildlife that inhabits mountain habitats. Deforestation, quarrying and the development of ski-resorts are the most damaging advances to mountain wildlife, along with global warming and climate change which affects the growth of plants at higher altitudes. 
		 	      

	      The emu is the largest bird native to Australia and the second largest bird in the world, behind the ostrich. The emu is most commonly found in wooded areas but emus are common all over Australia.  

Studies show that emus seem to avoid dense forests and largely populated areas, as this means that the emu can be more aware of it's surroundings. Although the emu does prefer to be in woodland or shrub land where there is plenty to eat as well as cover, they like to know exactly what is around them.  

In Australia there are enormous emu farms where the emu is bred for meat, oil and leather. Emu oil is said to hold medicinal healing properties when rubbed onto painful joints and is commonly used across the world mainly for sports injuries but also arthritis.  

Emus can grow to nearly 2 meters tall and have have extremely soft feathers. Emus are flightless birds mainly due to their enormous size, which means that they are just too heavy to fly. Emus are nomadic animals which means that they rarely stay in the same place for long. This travelling lifestyle means that the emu can make the most of the food that is available and emus are known to travel long distances in order to find more food.  

Emus are omnivorous birds feeding mainly on fruits, seeds and insects. Emus are generally found close to water and are therefore not keen on more arid regions. However, the introduction of better water supplies to inland Australia has meant that despite the population decrease of the wild emu, their range has expanded.  

Emus have long necks and long legs in comparison to their body size. The long, flexible legs of the emu mean that the emu is able to run a high speeds, with emus generally running at around 25 mph. Emus however are able to reach a top speed 30 mph in short bursts should the emu need to get away quickly from a dangerous situation.  

Emus form breeding pairs during the Australian summer (December) and mating usually occurs when the climate becomes cooler a few months later. The female emu can lay up to 20 eggs (although 12 is the average number), which hatch after a couple of months. The male emu eats very little throughout the breeding process and it is he that incubates the eggs. By the time the emu chicks hatch, the male emu has lost a considerable amount of body weight and lives of his fat reserves.  

Emus have few predators due to their large size and fast speed. Emus are most commonly preyed upon by wild dogs and crocodiles and are hunted by humans. Emu eggs are eaten by many animals including dogs, birds of prey and large reptiles.  

Emus tend to live for between 10 and 20 years in the wild, although it is not uncommon for an emu to be more than 30 years old, particularly when in captivity. Emus are known to be very versatile animals and can easily adapt to many different environments. 

		 	      

	      The ferret is a domestic animal thought to be native to Europe. The ferret is thought to be a subspecies of polecat and the ferret has the same long shaped body as a polecat and a weasel.  

The ferret is thought to have been domesticated around 2,500 years ago, which is roughly the same time that a number of animals such as the donkey and goat were put to domestic use. The ferret is used to help farmers hunt out rabbits and the ferret does this by crawling into the rabbit burrows, with the ferret using its incredibly shaped flexible body to its advantage as a ferret is often small than many rabbits. The rabbit is scared out of the burrow by the invading ferret and uses one of the many burrow exits to get away from the ferret intruder.  

Today the ferret is becoming an increasingly popular pet worldwide, due to the small size of the ferret and its quiet temperament. There are laws about ferret restrictions in a number of countries, to try and prevent the ferret from becoming a pest, as ferrets can be fairly destructive if released into the wild particularly if the ferret is not native to the country in question.  

Most ferrets spend an average of 18 hours asleep every day and it has been noted that ferrets sleep for about six hours at a time before waking up to play and eat and the ferret will generally return it its next sleeping section after an hour or so. Ferrets have also been observed being most active at dusk and dawn when it is not fully light or dark.  

Ferrets are renowned for playing their own version of hide and seek, which is particularly noticeable with those ferrets that are kept as pets. Although it is not certain exactly what the ferret will hide, owners have reported finding secret stashes of anything from toys to remote controls and keys, and even bags of of onions and slices of pizza.  

Ferrets are small carnivorous mammals and therefore a pet ferrets diet should mainly consist of meat. In the wild, ferrets will mainly hunt mice and small rabbits and sometimes, the ferret will be lucky enough to feed on a small bird.		 	      

	      Japanese Macaque Classification and Evolution
The Japanese Macaque is a medium sized Monkey found in a variety of different habitats throughout Japan. The Japanese Macaque is also known as the Snow Monkey as they are often found living in colder regions of the country where heavy snowfall is common during the winter. They are the world's most northern living Monkey species and have adapted incredibly to their surroundings and changing seasons. There are two different subspecies of Japanese Macaque, one which is found across northern and mainland Japan, and the other is restricted to one of the country's southern islands. The two differ very slightly in size and appearance.  
Japanese Macaque Anatomy and Appearance
The Japanese Macaque has a stocky body with a naked, red face that is said to resemble that of a Human. Their thick, furry coat is usually grey or brown in colour, sometimes with a slightly mottled pattern, and grows thicker during the winter months to allow the Japanese Macaque to stay warm in freezing conditions. Like other Monkey species, the Japanese Macaque has opposable thumbs, allowing it to grasp and hold objects and is able to walk on just it's hind legs when it has something in it's hands. The Japanese Macaque also has large pouches in it's cheeks, to allow the Japanese Macaque to store food whilst foraging. They have a relatively short tail for their body size (in the same way as other primarily ground-dwelling Monkeys), and males tend to be somewhat larger than their female counterparts.  
Japanese Macaque Distribution and Habitat
The Japanese Macaque is found in four separate regions in Japan throughout a variety of habitats from subtropical jungles to hot mountain springs, in forested hills, across highlands and high up in the mountains. In the northern and central parts of Japan, Japanese Macaques have to contend with seasonal changes with temperatures ranging from -15 degrees Centigrade in the winter to more than 23 in the summer, where the vegetation primarily consists of deciduous trees and conifers. In their most southern range, on the island of Yaku-Shima, the Japanese Macaques live amongst tropical broad-leaf forests that are subjected to less seasonal change. In central Japan, the Japanese Macaques are found in the mountains, where they warm themselves in the hot springs that are heated by nearby volcanoes.  
Japanese Macaque Behaviour and Lifestyle
Japanese Macaques live together in troops that are led by the alpha male and usually consist of between 20 and 30 individuals. The alpha male not only helps to sire young, but also decides where the troop should go, and protects it from both predators and other Japanese Macaque troops. Social rank is very important in Japanese Macaque society, and consist of both males and females, with the male's rank often determined by his age. Offspring however, are also thought to inherit the rank of their mother with younger siblings often outranking their older brothers and sisters. Japanese Macaques are incredibly sociable animals, particularly the females who tend to remain in the same troop for their whole lives, and spend their time together, grooming and raising the troop's young.  
Japanese Macaque Reproduction and Life Cycles
Female Japanese Macaques tend to reach sexual maturity about a year earlier than males, at between the ages of four and five. She usually chooses her mate by his rank, and after a gestation period that lasts for up to 6 months, the female Japanese Macaque gives birth to a single infant. Baby Japanese Macaques are incredibly dependent on their mother and remain clinging to her for their first couple of years, meaning that mother and baby often have a very close bond. Once weaned, males often leave the troop and spend their lives travelling between others, while females generally remain in the same troop that they were born into. Japanese Macaques tend to live for a relatively long time, often reaching ages of 30 years old or more.  
Japanese Macaque Diet and Prey
The Japanese Macaque is an omnivorous animal meaning that it forages for both plants and smaller animals in order to survive. Unlike a number of other Monkey species, Japanese Macaques are primarily ground-dwelling so the majority of their foraging is done on the ground. They mainly eat fruits, berries, seeds, young leaves and flowers which they pick from the surrounding vegetation before storing it in their cheek pouches, so that they can continue to gather more. They also supplement their diet with Crabs, Insects and Bird's eggs particularly during the colder winter months when their are slim pickings on the branches. Japanese Macaque babies feed on their mother's milk until they are able to begin eating more solid foods.  
Japanese Macaque Predators and Threats
Due to their fairly large size and diverse habitat ranges, the Japanese Macaque has no real predators in their natural environment, perhaps with the exception of the occasional hungry Wolf or Feral Dog. Humans are the primarily threat to the Japanese Macaque as they are often killed by farmers when they approach livestock and crops. However, the only reason that these conflicts occur is that the Japanese Macaque is being pushed into smaller and smaller pockets of it's native ranges, due to deforestation and growing Human settlements. During the colder winter months, Japanese Macaque individuals in the north are also known to sleep in the deciduous trees to protect them from being buried in large amounts of snow during the night.  
Japanese Macaque Interesting Facts and Features
The females are actually very picky when choosing a mate, as they will not mate with a male Japanese Macaque that they have mated with in the past few years, to prevent interbreeding within the troop. Japanese Macaques, particularity in the north, have different home ranges for the changing seasons which leads to their wide variety in diet and different habitats. They are incredibly intelligent and adaptable animals and are known to pass new behaviours through the generations. In the mid 1900's a female was seen entering a hot spring to gather dropped soy beans and today, whole troops can be seen resting in the steaming waters to keep themselves warm.  
Japanese Macaque Relationship with Humans
Like many of the 22 Monkey species found across Japan, the Japanese Macaque is often loved and protected by the native people. However, growing Human settlements and land clearance for logging and agriculture has meant that Japanese Macaques have lost vast areas of their natural habitats, and often have to approach farmland in order to find better food supplies. It is estimated that, despite being a protected species in Japan today, around 5,000 Japanese Macaque individuals are killed every year by farmers who claim to be protecting their livestock and their crops. In the Nagano Mountains in central Japan though, the Japanese Macaques that bath in the hot springs, have become one of the country's most desirable tourist attractions.  
Japanese Macaque Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Japanese Macaque has been listed as a Threatened species by the IUCN, with the southern subspecies of Japanese Macaque actually listed as Endangered. This means that both have been subjected to loss of their natural habitats and population numbers have dropped throughout the country. It is estimated that there could be as few as 50,000 individuals remaining in Japan today, but numbers are still declining particularly seeing that they are often killed, as they are seen as pests by local people.

		 	      

	       They live a long time almost 16 years long. They are pretty big and weigh around 72 pounds.		 	      

	      Edible Frog Classification and Evolution
The Edible Frog is a species of Frog found across Europe that is also known as the Common Water Frog and the Green Frog. The Edible Frog is a fertile hybrid of two other European Frogs, the Pool Frog and the Marsh Frog, that bred when populations where isolated close to one another during the ice ages. The scientific name of the Edible Frog means both "mud" and "guardian" as they are known to never stray far from water, almost guarding the muddy banks. It was first described in 1758 and has adopted it's name as the "edible" Frog due to the fact that they are now seen as a culinary delicacy in France, particularly the legs.  
Edible Frog Anatomy and Appearance
The Edible Frog is a medium sized Frog growing to around 9cm in length. Females tend to be larger than males and have been known to get up to 12 cm long. Adult Edible Frogs are mainly green in colour with light patches of brown on their backs, yellow eyes and a white underside, covered in a few dark spots. There are number of distinct differences between males and females including the fact that males become much lighter (and greener) during the mating season. Male Edible Frogs also have vocal sacs on the outside of their cheeks and extra skin patches on their feet, both of which are primarily for mating.  
Edible Frog Distribution and Habitat
The Edible Frog is found across central Europe and as far north as Germany and Estonia. Southern populations of the Edible Frog are found from Croatia, through northern Italy and into the south of France. There are also isolated populations in Sweden and Bulgaria which are thought to have migrated from the countries nearby. Edible Frogs spend all of their time either in or very close to water and are most commonly found in calmer parts of rivers and streams, where there is a slow but constant flow of  fresh water. They are said to prefer more open areas and can also be commonly spotted around lakes, ponds and marshes.  
Edible Frog Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike many other species of Frog, the Edible Frog is a diurnal animal and is therefore most active during the day. This is when Edible Frogs are most likely to move away from the water, so that they can find a better supply of food or move to a different part of the water if need be. The Edible Frog is a relatively solitary animal so there is less competition for food but males are often seen sitting together in groups during the breeding season when they are trying to out-compete each other for a mate. Edible Frogs spend a large portion of their time sitting motionless on the muddy banks where they are perfectly camouflaged by their skin colour. They are also known to move onto land to hibernate during the colder winter months.  
Edible Frog Reproduction and Life Cycles
The breeding season for Edible Frogs begins during March and generally lasts for a couple of months. Males sing by drawing air in and out of their vocal sacs to produce the highest-pitched sound possible, as the female is most attracted to the loudest Frog. After courting her in a lake, pond or swamp, the male lets the female lay up to 10,000 eggs in a sticky mass into the water, before he fertilises them. Tadpoles can be as small as 0.5cm long when they hatch and are a grey/brown colour, then growing up to 7cm in length before metamorphoses occurs, and they leave the water as 2cm long young Frogs. Edible Frogs reach sexual maturity at the age of two and can live until they are 15 years old.  
Edible Frog Diet and Prey
Adult Edible Frogs are carnivorous animals, surviving only by eating other animals. The tadpoles however, mainly eat vegetation although are known to supplement their diet with aquatic micro-organisms on occasion. Small invertebrates such as Insects, Spiders, Moths and Flies make up the majority of their diet along with larger aquatic animals like Fish, Newts and other Frogs, and even small Birds. Edible Frogs hunt for their food during the day and can be seen catching food in ponds, and even on land. There are even reports of Edible Frogs venturing up to 500 meters away from water in their quest for nutrition.  
Edible Frog Predators and Threats
Edible Frogs remain very still when they are guarding the muddy banks, and this along with their camouflage, makes them very difficult for predators to spot. Their eyes are positioned near the top of their heads meaning they can also see danger coming whilst their body is mainly hidden. Snakes, Owls and water-dwelling Birds are the main predators of the Edible Frog, along with Humans who commonly eat them. Edible Frogs will jump into the water and hide if they sense approaching danger, and will make a loud screeching sound if caught. Edible Frog populations are also under threat from habitat destruction mainly caused by deforestation and water pollution.  
Edible Frog Interesting Facts and Features
The Edible Frog is one of the few animals in the world that is a fertile mix of two different species, as although similar but genetically different species are known to mate, it is very rare that their offspring will be able to breed. The kl. of the Edible Frog's scientific name indicates that the species is made up of chromosomes that have been stolen from other species. The esculentus part of the Edible Frog's scientific name is Latin for edible as this species is one of the most commonly eaten Frog species in the world.  
Edible Frog Relationship with Humans
As it's name suggests, the Edible Frog is used as a food source by people across the continent, although they are most commonly eaten in France where Frog's legs are often served as a national dish. The reason for Humans favouring this Frog over others is not really known but it may have something to do with their abundance. However, despite still being one of the most common Frogs in Europe, the Edible Frog is under threat across much of it's natural range as more land is tampered with. Due to their permeable skin, they are also particularly susceptible to water pollution and will migrate from areas where the water quality has declined.  
Edible Frog Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Edible Frog is listed as a species that is of Least Concern from extinction in the near future, but populations in certain areas are declining. They are particularly adaptable animals and have been able to inhabit man-made bodies of water. Providing however, that the water quality is good, there is an ample supply of food and little competition for it from other species.


		 	      

	      The mouse is a small rodent that is spread widely throughout nearly every country. The mouse is found in all corners of the globe, including parts of Antarctica.  

Many people today like to keep the mouse as pets because of the small size and quiet temperament of the mouse. The mouse is also used a lot in scientific research though the mouse is not an easy animal to examine.  

The mouse is often easy prey around the world for small mammals, birds and reptiles. Due to this the mouse generally does not live for much longer than a few months in the wild, mainly because the mouse is small easy prey for many mammals and birds. The mouse though has been known to get up to a few years old when kept as a pet.  

Mice can be harmful pests at times, through damaging and eating crops and spreading diseases through their parasites and feces. It is because of the pest problems caused by mice, that domestic cats are thought to have been introduced into common households.  

The gestation period in female mice is less than a month, and the female mouse has an average litter size of about six baby mice, although the mouse litter size is commonly higher than six. The baby mice are known as pups and these mice pups are born with no hair and with their eyes and ears closed. Mouse babies are weaned when they are around three weeks old.  

There are nearly 40 different known species of mouse found throughout the world. The different mouse species range in size and colour that is generally dependent on their environment.  

 Mouse Foot Facts 

Mice have soft feet with nails on each of their toes that enables the mouse to climb well as they can wrap their feet around things.
Mice have five toes on their two back feet and four toes on their two front feet which gives mice more stability when standing on their back feet.
Mice use their two front feet to grip onto food such as seeds and berries, so that the mice can eat their food with ease.
The mouse has very small and flexible feet but it can easily get its feet stuck in areas that are too small, like if the bars on a mouse cage are too close together.
Like hamsters, the foot structure of mice enables them to run backwards into their burrows when wanting to escape from predators.

  
 Mouse Teeth Facts 

An adult mouse has 16 teeth which it uses for holding onto and chewing its food.
Mice have one upper pair and one lower pair of incisors at the front of their mouths which mice uses to grip onto and bite their food.
Mice have between two and five cheek teeth which mice uses for gnawing, but when mice use their cheek teeth the incisors at the front of their mouths stop moving.
The incisors at the front of the mouth of mice grow continuously to keep them sharp and strong, and mice must gnaw them down regularly to stop them front getting too long.
Mice tend to eat food that is hard so they can gnaw their teeth whilst eating meaning that although mice will eat cheese if they come across it, the myth about mice loving cheese is not entirely true.


		 	      

	      The Neanderthal is an old world, modern primate that is now extinct. It is thought that the Neanderthal roamed the lands of Asia and Europe for around 100,000 years.  

The Neanderthal traits are no longer found in humans, the last known being 24,000 years ago in Portugal. However, extensive research has shown the similarities between Neanderthal and human.    

The Neanderthal cranial capacity was much bigger than modern humans, judging by the size skulls found from the Neanderthal era. This indicates that the Neanderthal had a possible larger brain size. The Neanderthal is known to be smaller than modern humans and only got to around 40 years old at most.		 	      

	      A mule is the result of the mating of a male donkey (jack) and a female horse (mare) to produce a hybrid. The much rarer hinny is the result of mating a female donkey (jennet) with a male horse (stallion) although the hinny is much harder to produce than the mule. The jennet's reproductive system is more efficient at detecting and eliminating foreign DNA than the mare's is.  The hinny conception rate is lower and the miscarriage rate is higher.  It really isn't possible to distinguish a mule from a hinny by appearance.
Mules are anatomically normal and show normal breeding behavior unless gelded (castrated) early in life.  

Mules are sterile due to an uneven chromosome count. There are have been a very few rare cases since the 1500s where female mules have been known to produce a foal when mated to a stallion or jack.  Males are completely sterile, and as an old muleman said,"Ain't nothing meaner than a stud mule!"  

Mules are commonly found around the world in any area where there are donkeys and horses inhabiting the same environment. Mules have been bred by humans for use as riding and pack animals, and for ploughing or any work one does with horses.   

The mule's body type and temperament depend on the breed of mare and jack used.  Huge draft mules are created by breeding draft horses such as Belgians to Mammoth jacks.  They have the size and power of the draft horse with the mule's ability to tolerate heat and less feed. Racing mules are produced using Throughbred mares, and trail mules are often produced from Quarter horses, Paint horses, and Appaloosas.  Mules come in any horse or donkey color or combination of both.  A mule is easily distinguished from a donkey by looking at the tail.  A mule's tail is haired all the way to the top like a horse's tail; a donkey's tail has a tuft on the end like a cow. They compete successfully with horses in all venues including dressage.  

The mule has the patience, endurance, sure footedness, sense, and drought tolerance of the donkey, combined with  the size, speed, strength and courage of the horse. Operators of working animals generally find mules preferable to horses as mules have harder skin that is less sensitive than that of horses, meaning that mules can deal with climate extremes such as strong sun and rain more easily. They require less food and water than  a horse of the same size. The mules hooves are harder than horses hooves, and both the mule and the mules hooves show a natural resistance to disease and insects.  

		 	      

	      The octopus group makes up around a third of the worlds cephalopod population, with around 300 species found in waters around the world. The octopus can be found in the all the worlds oceans, with the octopus ranging in size from a just few centimeters to number of feet depending on the species of octopus!  

The octopus often has a sharp beak, and an octopus will always have eight arms (unless any have been lost). Most species of octopus generally have arms with circular sucker pads on.  

The lifespan of the octopus depends on the species of octopus, with many species of octopus averaging around 6 months old. Some species of octopus however, particularly the bigger octopus species, can live for a few years.  

The octopus is well known for being a master of disguise and is able to blend into pretty much any background using its elaborate camouflage. The octopus not only uses this to its advantage for both hiding from potential prey and predators, but it is also thought to play a role in the male octopuses mating display, in order to attract a female octopus.  

The octopus is also thought to have three hearts, two of which are used for pumping blood through the gills, and another for pumping the pale blue blood of the octopus through the rest of the body.  

Generally, most species of octopus have no internal or external skeleton which means that the octopus is able to squeeze itself into tight places. The octopus is known to be one of the most intelligent of all the invertebrates and the octopus uses this to its advantage mainly using elaborate disguise. 		 	      

	      The marsh frog is a medium, fairly colourful species of frog that natively found in Europe. The marsh frog is closely related to the edible frog and the pool frog, all three of which belong to the family of "green frogs" (the common frog belongs to the brown frog family).  

The marsh frog is the largest species of true frog native to Europe and is found in deep ponds, lakes, rivers and around streams across the continent. The range of the marsh frog is wider than it once was, as the marsh frog is also found in parts of western Asia and Russia and even in some areas in China and Pakistan.   

The marsh frog is a very aquatic species of frog and has adapted well to a water-based life. As with other frogs, the toes of the marsh frog are webbed to both assist the marsh frog in swimming and when negotiating the slippery banks. The eyes of the marsh frog are also on top of it's head which means that they can be looking on the surface of the water while the body of the marsh frog is safely submerged.  

Marsh frogs are often easy frogs to identify due to their bright-green coloured skin and long hind legs. Marsh frogs are often medium sized frogs with females often growing to 17cm in length. The male marsh frog is often much smaller, maybe two thirds of the size of the female marsh frog.  

As with many other amphibious animals, the marsh frog is a carnivore meaning that it only eats other animals in order to survive. Marsh frogs primarily feeds on small invertebrates in, on or close to water including various species of insect, spiders and moths.  

The relatively small size of the marsh frog and easily spotted green skin, means that the marsh frog has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Birds, large toads, fish, mammals and lizards all prey on the marsh frog.  

Marsh frogs tend to breed in the early spring, when mating takes place in calm, shallow pools of water. The female marsh frog lays around 1,000 eggs in a sticky cluster that floats on the water's surface, known as frogspawn. Once developed the marsh frog tadpoles emerge into the water where they are fully aquatic until they metamorphose into adult marsh frogs and are able to leave the water.  

Today, although not in immediate danger of becoming extinct in the wild, the marsh frog populations are under increased threat due, primarily due to deforestation and pollution of their natural habitats.
		 	      

	      The Norwegian forest cat is native to the Scandinavian regions of Northern Europe, with the Norwegian forest cat having adapted to the colder climates of the near polar regions.  

The Norwegian forest cat has long thick fur, which is in a double-layer to keep the cat warm in the uncompromising winters. The Norwegian forest cat also has a thick layer of fat insulating its body.  

The Norwegian forest cat was only distinguished as a special breed of cat in the 1900s, up until then it was simply another type of house cat. The Norwegian forest cat is today bred for cat shows and awards in both Europe and America.  

The Norwegian Forest cat is one of the largest breeds of domestic cat, generally reaching more than a meter in length. The Norwegian forest cat has a heavy body due to its large size and can often be more than twice the weight of other domestic cat breeds.  

The Norwegian Forest cat is a popular household pet die to its large size, long fur and its gentle and loving temperate. The large size of the Norwegian Forest cat also means that it can be lazier than other, smaller, domestic cat breeds.		 	      

	      Liger Classification and Evolution
The Liger is the largest of the world's felines, known to grow up to 12ft tall when standing on their hind legs. Created by the mating of a male Lion with a female Tiger, Ligers tend to far exceed the size of both of their parents and although they share similar characteristics with both of them, the Liger tends to be more like a Lion rather than a Tiger. A Tigon is the result of breeding a female Lion with a male Tiger, with this animal tending to be less like a Lion having more Tiger-like qualities. Due to the fact though that Lions and Tigers live in different areas of the world, it is very unlikely that Ligers (or Tigons) would occur naturally in the wild. Today there are a handful of Ligers found in zoos around the world, which are a result of either accidental or deliberate Human intervention.  
Liger Anatomy and Appearance
The Liger is an enormous animal with a large muscular body and broad head. Ligers tend to have sandy or dark yellow fur which is covered in the distinctive faint stripes inherited from their mother. Although other variations in fur colour have been known (including white when their mother is a White Tiger), the Liger generally has a more Lion-like appearance including the manes of the males. Although a Liger's mane is not as big or as impressive as that of an adult Lion, they can grow quite large on some individuals but it is not uncommon for a male Liger to have no mane at all. Along with their stripes which tend to be most noticeable around their hind quarters, the Liger may also inherit the spots found on the backs of Tiger's ears along with the tufted fur around their chins.  
Liger Distribution and Habitat
Historically it could have been possible although rare, for a male Lion to mate with a female Tiger in the wild to produce Liger offspring. This is because the Asiatic Lion once roamed across a much larger portion of Asia meaning that they could have more easily wandered into a Tiger's territory. Today however, Tigers are only found in the dense jungles of Asia where they are being pushed into smaller and smaller pockets of their natural habitat. Lions on the other hand, are found patrolling the African grasslands with the exception of the few remaining Asiatic Lions, who are found in a remote forest in India where there are no Tigers. Sadly, although the natural habitat of the Liger would probably be fairly similar to that of a Tiger, the world's only known Ligers are found in caged enclosures.  
Liger Behaviour and Lifestyle
Despite their gigantic size and the fact that their parents are two of the planet's most ferocious predators, the Liger is known to have a relatively gentle and docile nature particularly when interacting with handlers. They have however been reported to be slightly confused as to whether or not they are Lions or Tigers as their most bewildering characteristic is the fact that they seem to love water. In the wild, it is not uncommon for Tigers to enter water either to catch prey or to cool down in the heat and so they are naturally good swimmers, which is something that the Liger seems to have inherited. Lions do not like water however and so it is often reported that it does take some time for the Liger to take to it's water loving lifestyle. Another odd thing is the fact that the Liger appears to make both Lion and Tiger noises but it's roar is more like that of a Lion's.  
Liger Reproduction and Life Cycles
Most Ligers are created through the accidental introduction of Lions and Tigers in the same enclosure although it can take up to a year for the two to mate. After mating the male Lion with the female Tiger, the Tiger gives birth to a litter of between 2 and 4 Liger cubs after a gestation period that lasts for about 100 days. As with the young of other large felines, the Liger cubs are born blind and are incredibly vulnerable, relying heavily on their mother for their first 6 months of life. As with Lion cubs, young Ligers have darker spots on their fur which helps to provide them with extra camouflage. However, as with some adult Lions, these spots often remain on Ligers and are most prominent on their underside. Many Liger cubs are sadly born with birth defects and often don't survive for longer than a week.   
Liger Diet and Prey
Like the rest of the world's felines, the Liger is a carnivorous animal meaning that it hunts and kills other animals in order to gain it's nutrition. Although the wild diet of the Liger can only be presumed, it is thought to be similar to that of a Tiger mainly hunting larger herbivores including Deer, Wild Boar and (due to their immense size) possibly small or vulnerable Asian Elephants. In captivity they tend to eat an average of 20lbs of meat a day but it is thought that a Liger would easily devour 100lbs worth of food in one sitting. The Liger has an enormous and incredibly strong jaw with sharp, pointed teeth which are ideal for tearing through flesh. Ligers also have very muscular bodies and sharp claws which also help them to catch and eat their prey.  
Liger Predators and Threats
If they were found in the wild, the Liger would be the most dominant predator in their environment and would therefore have no natural predators to worry about, with the obvious exception of Humans. Much like Lions and Tigers, Ligers would be subjected to both hunting for trophies and their fur, along with severe habitat loss throughout much of what would be their natural range. In captivity, many Liger cubs are born with fatal birth defects due to the fact that it is the result of cross-breeding of two different species. Another problem to consider is the unnatural nature in which Ligers are both bred and kept all around the world. As it is highly unlikely that Ligers can occur in the wild today, they are merely being bred and kept by zoos in order to make money.  
Liger Interesting Facts and Features
Although like many other hybrids Ligers tend to be sterile, it has been known for a female Liger to be able to produce offspring but a fertile male Liger has never been recorded. She will either be bred with a male Lion or a male Tiger to either produce a litter of Li-Liger or Ti-Liger offspring depending on the species of the father. One of the most famous Ligers is a Hollywood creation named Hercules, who is the offspring of a male Lion and a female Tiger in an institute in Florida. At the age of three he stood at 10ft tall when on his hind legs and weighed half a ton. Another reason as to why Ligers would be rarely produced in the wild is that if a male Lion and a female Tiger came across one another, they are much more likely to fight to defend their territory or avoid one another completely in order to risk getting hurt.  
Liger Relationship with Humans
The Liger has been bred by people since the early 19th century when a litter of Liger cubs was born in Asia in 1824. It was more than 100 years however until the next recorded litter which was in a zoo in South Africa just before World War II. Although Ligers are known to be quite even tempered, there remains a great deal of controversy over the cross-breeding of two different animal species, particularly when it is so highly unlikely to occur without Human intervention. Today there are a number of Ligers found in zoos and animal institutes around the world, who are bred (generally by accident) and kept as a money-making attraction.   
Liger Conservation Status and Life Today
As there is no real scientific name assigned to the Liger due to the fact that it is made from cross-breeding two separate species artificially, and that is it is not found in the wild, the Liger has no conservation status. The Liger is found in only a handful of enclosures on the planet but they remain frowned upon by many as they do not exist in the wild and therefore have no value as such to conservation. Tigons are more rarely found than Ligers today however, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries there were more of them than there were Ligers. The breeding of Ligers is now banned in a number of countries around the world.
		 	      

	      Okapi Classification and Evolution
The Okapi is an elusive herbivore that is found in a small pocket of tropical mountain forest in central Africa. Despite it's Deer-like appearance the Okapi is actually one of the last remaining ancestors of the Giraffe, which is the tallest animal on Earth. Along with having a relatively long neck compared to it's body size, the most striking feature of the Okapi is the horizontal stripes that are particularly visible on their behinds and give this animal an almost Zebra-like appearance. The Okapi is very shy and secretive, so much so in fact that they were not recognised as a distinct species by western science until the earth 20th century. Although they are seldom seen by people, the Okapi is not an endangered species as they are thought to be fairly common in their remote habitats.  
Okapi Anatomy and Appearance
Like it's distant and much larger ancestor, the Okapi has a long neck which not only helps it to reach leaves that are higher up, but also provides the Okapi with a tool to both defend itself and it's territory. The Okapi has a red-brown coloured coat of fur with horizontal, white striped markings that are found on their hind quarters and at the tops of their legs, and provide the Okapi with excellent camouflage in the dense jungle. They have white ankles with a dark spot above each hoof and very thick skin to help protect them from injury. The Okapi has a long head and dark muzzle with large set-back ears which enable the Okapi to detect approaching predators easily. The Okapi also has an impressively long tongue, which is not only black in colour but it is also prehensile meaning that it is able to grab hold of leaves from the branches above.  
Okapi Distribution and Habitat
The Okapi is found in the dense tropical rainforests of north-eastern Democratic Republic of Congo generally at an altitude that can vary between 500 and 1,000 meters, although the majority of individuals are thought to inhabit areas at roughly 800 meters above sea level. They are incredibly shy and elusive animals and rely heavily on the very thick foliage around them to protect them from being spotted by predators. The Okapi can also be found in areas where there is a slow-moving fresh water source, but the range of the Okapi is very much limited by natural barriers, with unsuitable habitats on all four sides trapping these animals into the 63,000 square kilometre Ituri Rainforest. Around a fifth of the rainforest is today made up of the Okapi Wildlife Reserve, which is a World Heritage Site. Although they are thought to be common in their native region, the Okapi has been severely threatened by habitat loss particularly from deforestation.  
Okapi Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Okapi is a diurnal animal meaning that they are most active during the day when they spend the majority of their time roaming set paths through the forest in search of food. They are solitary animals with the exception of the time mothers spend with their calves but are known to tolerate other individuals and may occasionally feed together in small groups for a short period of time. Okapi have overlapping home ranges with males tending to occupy a larger territory than females, which is marked with both urine and by rubbing their necks on trees. Males also use their necks to fight with one other to both settle disputes over territory and to compete to mate with a female during the breeding season. Okapis are known to also communicate with one another using quiet "chuff" sounds and rely heavily on their hearing in the surrounding forest where they are not able to see very far at all.   
Okapi Reproduction and Life Cycles
After a gestation period that can last for up to 16 months, the female Okapi retreats into the dense vegetation where she gives birth to a single calf. Like many hoofed-herbivores, the Okapi calf is usually able to stand within half an hour when mother and baby then begin starting to look for a good nest spot. They remain in their nest deep in the undergrowth for the majority of the next two months which not only helps the calf to develop more rapidly but also gives it vital protection from hungry predators. Although the female Okapi will protect and feed her vulnerable calf, the two are not thought to share the same close bond that occurs with numerous other hoofed mammals. Although they do begin to develop their white stripes at a fairly young age, the young Okapi do not reach their full adult size until they are roughly three years old. They are generally weaned at around 6 months old but may continue to suckle from their mother for more than a year.   
Okapi Diet and Prey
The Okapi is a herbivorous animal meaning that it survives on a diet that is only comprised of plant matter. They eat leaves, shoots and twigs that are drawn into their mouths using their long prehensile tongue along with fruits, berries and other plant parts. The Okapi will even eat fungi on occasion and is known to eat more than 100 different types of plant, many of which are poisonous to other animals and Humans. Along with consuming a vast variety of plant material, the Okapi is also known to eat a reddish clay that provides essential salt and minerals to it's plant-based diet. The Okapi spends a great deal of the daylight hours in search of food and walks quietly along well-trodden paths that it uses regularly to ensure an easier escape from predators.   
Okapi Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Okapi inhabits such a secluded region of mountain rainforest, it actually has surprisingly few common predators particularly in comparison to similar species. The main predator of the Okapi is the Leopard, which is one of the world's largest and most powerful felines and an animal that spends a lot of time resting in the trees. Unlike other predators which the Okapi's acute hearing would sense moving through the undergrowth, the Leopard's position above ground means that they are able to both survey the surrounding area for potential prey and are also able to ambush it from above. Other predators of the Okapi include the Serval and Human hunters in the area, but the biggest threat to the world's Okapi population is habitat loss due to deforestation.  
Okapi Interesting Facts and Features
One of the most distinctive features of both the Okapi and the Giraffe is their long prehensile tongue which can not only be used to grab onto leaves and branches but it also assists the animal when grooming. The tongue of the Okapi is in fact so long, that they are one of the few animals in the world that are said to be able to lick their own ear! Although they are quite rare and very secretive animals, there were sightings of the Okapi in these forests but these generally involved seeing the animal from behind and so the Okapi was known by many as a Forest Zebra. The Okapi was not classified as a distinct species until 1900 - 1901, when Harry Johnston sent two pieces of Zebra-like skin to London which was analysed and meant that a new species had been recorded.   
Okapi Relationship with Humans
Until the beginning of the last century, the Okapi itself was not known to western scientists but the native people of the region were known to hunt this rare and elusive animal for both it's meat and it's thick hide. Today this secretive animal is still seldom seen in the high mountain rainforests of central Africa both due to it's shy nature and it's excellent camouflage amongst the dense foliage, so much of what we know about the Okapi is from observations of individuals found in zoos and animal institutions around the world. This however was not really successful until the introduction of planes as the trauma endured by the animal on trains on boats often meant that there was a high mortality rate of the individuals that were captured.   
Okapi Conservation Status and Life Today
Although they are thought to be fairly common throughout their naturally isolated range, the Okapi has been listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Near Threatened from extinction in it's natural environment. This is due to the increase of deforestation in parts of their natural habitat along with the fact that they are becoming increasingly caught on snares and other traps that are set by locals to catch other animals. The Okapi has been protected by law in the Democratic Republic of Congo (formally Zaire) since 1933, and the IUCN last estimated that there were between 10,000 and 35,000 individuals left in the wild. 
		 	      

	      The long-eared owl is a small species of owl that is primarily found in parts of the Northern Hemisphere. As it's name suggests, the long-eared owl is named after the long, black ear-tufts, which are feathers found on either side of the middle of the long-eared owl's head.  

The long-eared owl is a fairly widespread bird, found throughout Europe, North America and parts of Asia, where it spends the warmer summer months breeding. Like all migratory birds, the long-eared owl migrates south during the winter months, before returning north when the weather warms again the spring.  

The two most of distinctive features of the long-eared owl are it's black ear-tufts and the reddish/brown disks that are marked around it's eyes and are characteristic of this species. The long ear-tufts of the long-eared owl are mainly used to make the long-eared owl look larger than it really is to other animals, when it is perched in the trees.  

Long-eared owls are nocturnal meaning that they are most active under the cover of night. In a similar way to other owl species, the long-eared owls are generally solitary animals that are only really seen together during the mating season, or small groups of long-eared owls are sometimes spotted migrating to the warmer south together.  

Long-eared owls are carnivorous birds, only hunting and feeding on other animals in order to survive. Small mammals such as mice and voles are the most common prey for the long-eared owl along with smaller birds and reptiles. Owls do not chew their food but instead swallow it whole, regurgitating the bones in a small pellet some time later.  

The long-eared owl has few ground-dwelling predators as it is only really seen at ground level when swooping down from the sky to catch it's dinner. Airborne predators are the biggest threat to the long-eared owl, particularly large birds of prey such as bigger owls and eagles.  

Long-eared owls breed in the warmer spring months between February and July, often nesting in the trees, occupying nests previously built and abandoned by other large birds. The female long-eared owl lays around 5 small eggs which she sits on (incubating them) for up to a month.  

Today, the long-eared owl is becoming more threatened in the wild, with population demise primarily caused by habitat loss across much of their native range, and the decreasing amount of rodents for the long-eared owls to feast on.
		 	      

	      The Japanese chin is considered one of the most cat-like of the dog breeds in attitude: it is alert, intelligent, and independent, and it uses its paws to wash its face. Other cat-like traits include their preference for resting on high surfaces such as the backs of sofas and chairs, their ability to walk across a coffee table without disturbing an item, and some of the surprising places their owners often find them in.  

 A companion dog, it is loving and loyal to its owner and typically happy to see other people, though a few are distrustful of strangers. Chin prefer familiar surroundings, but do quite well in new situations and are often used as therapy dogs because of this trait and their love of people.  

 Very early socialization of Chin puppies leads to a more emotionally well-balanced Chin that is more accepting of different situations and people.		 	      

	      The llama is thought to have originated in North America around 40 million years ago and the llama is believed to have then migrated to South America and Asia around 3 million years ago, before the American and Asian continents finally separated at Alaska. The llama is thought to have become extinct from North America during the ice age.  

Today the llama is most commonly found in the Andes mountain region of South America where the llama was kept as a pack animal by the ancient Inca people. Llamas are used for meat, wool, skin and for transporting heavy loads (a little like donkeys).      

The llama is thought to have evolved from the old world camel-like animals that inhabited the regions that is today the Middle East. Although the llama has many similarities to the camel, the most noticeable difference between the llama and the camel is that the llama does not have a hump on its back.  

Llamas are very sociable animals and enjoy being with other llamas in a herd. The llama is also believed to be a particularly intelligent animal as llamas are commonly taught tasks which the llama picks up with only a few repetitions of the task.  

Female llamas give birth to baby llamas (known as crias) standing up. The gestation period for a llama is between 11 and 12 months and the birth of the cria is usually over within half an hour. Baby llamas are generally standing up and attempting to walk within an hour of birth. Llama mating takes place throughout the year and baby llamas tend to be born in the morning when the weather is warm. This is believed to increase the fertility rate of the cria.  

The llama is a herbivore and gets most of its nutrition from grass, leaves and young shoots. Llamas also do not have the same water retaining properties of their camel cousins, meaning that the llama must drink more often and llamas therefore prefer to be close to water.		 	      

	      Ocelot Classification and Evolution
The Ocelot is a medium-sized small cat that is native to the jungles of South America. The Ocelot is also known as the Painted Leopard due to the beautifully distinctive markings on it's fur as it displays dark rosettes, along with spots and stripes. Similar in colouration to the much smaller but closely related Margay, the Ocelot was nearly driven to extinction in the 20th century as they were commonly hunted for their fur. Today however, national protection throughout much of their natural range has meant that the Ocelot population has been able to recover somewhat. The Ocelot is a strong and agile cat that can not only climb and run well but they are also good swimmers as they are not afraid of water like numerous other cat species.   
Ocelot Anatomy and Appearance
The Ocelot has short and thick, velvety fur that is usually tawny-yellow to reddish-grey in colour and marked with black chain-like rosettes on it's back and sides. There are dark spots on their legs and stripes on their head and face which are distinctive to the individual. They have a long tail that is generally marked with dark rings and large paws in relation to their body size. Like all feline species (with the exception of Cheetahs) the Ocelot can retract it's claws into protective pockets that prevent them from becoming blunt whilst the Ocelot is walking about. Males tend to be substantially larger than females and can grow up to a meter in length with a tail half their body size on top of that. The Ocelot has sharply pointed front teeth which are used for biting down on it's prey and blade-like teeth in each cheek that are used for tearing up food.  
Ocelot Distribution and Habitat
The Ocelot is found throughout the South American tropics but is most common in the dense jungles of the Amazon Basin. They are however, fairly widespread and inhabit a variety of different habitats from southern Texas to northern Argentina. The Ocelot is an incredibly adaptable animal that can be found in variety of habitats including tropical forests, grasslands, mangrove forests and marshes providing that there is plenty of dense vegetation. Although the Ocelot is usually found below 1,200 meters above sea-level, they are also known to inhabit the high slopes of the Andes Mountains and have been found at heights up to 3,800 meters. As strong swimmers, they are also sometimes found in seasonally flooded forests and have been reported as living close to Human settlements.  
Ocelot Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Ocelot is a solitary animal that occupies a home range that can be up to 30 square kilometres depending on the surrounding environment. Males tend to patrol territories that are often double the size of the females', and one which overlaps the home ranges of a number of females (with which the male has breeding rights). The Ocelot is a nocturnal animal that spends the days sleeping either in thick vegetation or on a high and leafy branch. They have excellent sight, touch and hearing which all help them when hunting at night, and they communicate between one another using soft meows which turn into loud yowls when looking for a mate. The Ocelot is an incredibly secretive animal that is very rare in some parts of it's natural range and one that relies heavily on dense vegetation, only venturing into open areas during the night.  
Ocelot Reproduction and Life Cycles
In the heart of the tropics, Ocelots are known to breed all year round but at the most northern and southern ends of it's natural range, the breeding season tends to occur towards the end of the summer. After mating, the female Ocelot will find a crevice in the rocks, a hollow tree or will nest in a dense and thorny thicket in order for her to have some privacy and protection whilst she is preparing to give birth. Following a gestation period of up to 85 days the female Ocelot will give birth to 2 or 3 kittens, which are born blind and have a thin coat of dark fur. Within a month, the Ocelot kittens can view their surroundings and their fur will have become much denser and more colourful. Although Ocelot kittens are fully grown by the time they are a year old and are capable of becoming independent, they will often be tolerated in their mother's home range for a couple of years before they leave to establish a territory of their own.  
Ocelot Diet and Prey
The Ocelot is a carnivorous animal that hunts for food under the cover of night and does so by stalking it's prey primarily on the ground. Although small mammals such as rodents make up the majority of its diet, they are known to hunt a variety of small animals including rabbits, birds, fish, crabs, lizards and snakes and will even hunt small deer on occasion. The Ocelot is also known to eat monkeys, turtles, armadillos and anteaters but have been known to cause problems by killing domestic birds when there is not enough food available. As the Ocelot happily preys upon numerous different animal species, they are a vital part of their local ecosystems and their vast menu also helps them to more easily adapt to varying habitats.   
Ocelot Predators and Threats
Not only is the Ocelot an important predator in it's environment but they are also preyed upon by a number of large carnivores. Other felines including Jaguars and Pumas prey on the smaller Ocelot, along with Birds of Prey such as the Harpy Eagle and the world's biggest snake, the Anaconda. The unique and distinctive fur of the Ocelot though actually provides it with some camouflage in the dense vegetation surrounding it but it is also this fur that has led to enormous population declines throughout much of it's historical range. Hunted for their fur (known as pelts) particularly from the 1960s to the 1980s, the Ocelot nearly became extinct in the wild along with the fact that they were also captured and kept as exotic pets. Since the Ocelot became a protected species though in many countries, numbers have risen but they are now threatened by deforestation of their habitats.  
Ocelot Interesting Facts and Features
In a similar way to many other species of smaller wildcat, the Ocelot has been kept as a pet by many people throughout history. The most famous of these was the abstract artist Salvador Dali who was known to travel frequently with his domesticated Ocelot. It was even thought that Mr Dali actually took his pet Ocelot on an ocean liner! The Ocelot is also thought to have been worshipped by ancient Peruvian cultures (in a similar way to the Ancient Egyptians worshipping cats), and these cultures would often depict the beautiful Ocelot in their art work. The Ocelot is thought to be active for at least 12 hours a day and can travel distances of up to seven miles in that time, with males generally covering twice the distance of their female counterparts.  
Ocelot Relationship with Humans
The Ocelot was seen as a sacred animal by ancient cultures but it's beautifully patterned and soft fur quickly attracted the attention of hunters. Ocelot population numbers were severely depleted throughout their natural range particularly during the 1960s and 1970s when they were thought to be so extensively hunted, that up to 200,000 skins were being traded each year and were selling for around 40,000 US dollars. Despite being wild and dominant predators, the Ocelot has also been captured to sell into the exotic pet trade which fortunately ceased after the Ocelot was listed on the Endangered Species List. Despite the fact that the Ocelot is now protected in most of the countries throughout it's natural range and numbers have increased, populations particularly in certain areas are being severely affected by growing Human activity, primarily from deforestation and growing settlements.  
Ocelot Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Ocelot is listed by the IUCN as being a species that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in their natural environment in the near future. Although some populations are small and unstable, the Ocelot is widespread but the general population trend is now decreasing. This is mainly due to habitat loss as vast areas particularity in the Amazon, are subject to drastic deforestation and no longer provide the dense cover and adequate food supply that the Ocelot needs to survive.
		 	      

	      The newt is a small amphibian and the average newt only tends to grows to around 15cm long, some newts however are bigger or smaller depending on the species of newt. The newt is found naturally in North America, Europe and Asia and the newt is thought to be a subspecies of the salamander.  

A newt tends to lay its eggs individually, with the newt normally finding  ponds or slow-moving streams in which to do this. The individual newt eggs attach themselves to aquatic plants and hatch in about 3 weeks. The main difference between newt eggs and frog or toad eggs is that the eggs of the newt are laid individually and are attached to plants. Frog and toad eggs float close to the surface of the water and are usually found in big clumps, where there are often hundreds of eggs together.  

The newt tadpoles have a slight resemblance to baby fish, other than the fact that they have feathered external gills. The baby newt will grow legs during the first few months, at which time, the baby newt will be able to explore both water and land.  

The newt is generally a solitary animal but some species of newt are known to hibernate in groups. Newts generally come together during the mating season which tends to take place in early spring.  

People commonly keep fire-bellied newts, paddle-tail newts and crocodile newts as pets. The newt is seen as a good pet to keep as the newt is small and quiet and some species of newt, like the great crested newt native to Europe can get to 27 years old.  

There are thought to be around 15 different species of newt found throughout the Northern Hemisphere, and many of these newt species contain toxins in their skin which helps the newt to defend itself from predators. Certain species of the Pacific newt, found in North America are particularly toxic, with some of these newts containing enough toxin in there skin to kill and adult human.  

Newts are known best for their lizard-shaped body, with four legs and a long tail. Not only do newts have the incredible ability to breath both underwater and on land, but newts are also able to regrow limbs, should the original limbs of the newt become damaged. One theory as to why is this happens is that the chemicals that allow newts to regrow limbs, are the same as chemicals that produce tumors in other animals. These fast growing, and reproducing cells are thought to be very similar in both newts and tumors in other animals.  

Due to loss of habitat and pollution, the newt populations throughout the world have been severely declining. Conservation effects in both the UK and the USA have led to the native newt populations being allowed to try and increase in number once again.
		 	      

	      The elephant shrew is a small-sized mammal that is found exclusively in Africa. The elephant shrew is also known as the jumping shrew, as elephant shrews can hop like rabbits using their long back legs.  

Elephant shrews can be found inhabiting forests, jungles, grasslands and dense woodland all across Africa. There are nearly 20 different species of elephant shrew, all of which vary in both colour and size.  

Elephant shrews are known as insectivores as they survive on a diet that is solely comprised of insects. Despite their name and similar appearance, elephant shrews are not thought to be directly related to their shrew cousins in other parts of the world.  

Elephant shrews are very active animals and are always out hunting for food during the day. Due to the diurnal lifestyle of the elephant shrew, it has learned to live it's life in the most successful ways possible. Elephant shrews are very wary and well camouflaged animals, and are able to run away from danger extremely quickly.  

A number of elephant shrew species make a series of cleared pathways through the undergrowth and spend their days patrolling them for insect life. The pathways also give the elephant shrew a clear-run home should it become disturbed by a potential predator.  

Although elephant shrews are omnivorous animals, the diet of an elephant shrew is nearly completely made up from insects. The elephants shrew hunts worms and grubs from out of the ground, spiders that run along the ground and insects that are found all around it.  

Due to the small size of the elephant shrew, it has a number of natural predators in the wild. Snakes, lizards, birds of prey and omnivorous mammals all prey on the elephant shrew, but the elephant shrew is not the easiest meal to try and catch.  

Female elephant shrews give birth to more than 1 litter of babies every year. The baby elephant shrews are born after a gestation period that can be between 1 and 2 months long. Baby elephant shrews are well-developed when they are first born but remain in the nest for a few days before they begin to head in the big wide world.		 	      

	      The lobster is a large crustacean and like the crab is similar to shrimp and prawns. The lobster is one of the largest types of crustacean with some lobster species known to get to weigh over 20 kg.  

Lobsters live on rocky, sandy, or muddy bottoms close to the shoreline to beyond the edge of the continental shelf as the lobster prefers the shallower ocean water. The lobster is generally found to live by itself, where the lobster hides in crevices and in burrows under rocks.  

Lobsters have been known to get to 100 years old, sometimes older and the lobster continues to grow in size throughout the lobsters life. It is this that allows some adult lobsters to grow to enormous sizes.  

Lobsters tend to move slowly by walking along the bottom of the sea floor. However, when the lobster is in danger and the lobster needs to get away, the lobster is able to swim backwards quickly by curling and uncurling its abdomen.  

Lobsters come in a variety of colors including red, blue, green, purple, and yellow. Lobster has become one of the most luxurious types of seafood for humans throughout the world and the lobster population has therefore severely declined.		 	      

	      The mountain lion is one of the biggest species cat native to the mountains of the Americas. The mountain lion is thought to be a subspecies of cougar that is strictly confined to the mountainous areas.  

The mountain lion is a  highly adaptive feline, able to withstand the harsh conditions in the Rocky and Andes mountains. The mountain lion does not hibernate and therefore the mountain lions undergo uncompromising winters.   

Mountain lions tend to hunt rabbits, hares and larger birds, and without doubt deer and elk if they were to come across it. The mountain lion has no real natural predators although the mountain lion needs to be wary of bears due to the bears severe size advantage.    

Female mountain lions tend to have one litter of kittens every two or three years. The female mountain lion kitten litter size can range from one mountain lion kitten to six. Female mountain lions are extremely protective over their mountain lion kittens and some female mountain lion individuals have been known to fight to off large mammals, including grizzly bears, with success.  

Baby mountain lions are born blind, and these mountain lion kittens are completely dependent on their mother at first until the mountain lion kittens are around three months of age. As the mountain lion kittens grow, they begin to go out with their mother, first visiting kill sites, and after six months, the mountain lion kittens begin to hunt small prey on their own. 		 	      

	      The leopard cat is a small species of wild cat, native to south-east Asia and parts of the Indian subcontinent. There are eleven different species of leopard cat in the Asian jungles and as the name suggests, the fur of the leopard cat has the the similar spotted pattern to that of a leopard.  

The leopard cat is found in a variety of different habitats including tropical jungles, woodlands, scrubland and semi-desert regions that are relatively close to water. The leopard cat is widely distributed and can be found inhabiting parts of Indonesia, Philippines, Borneo, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Myanmar, Laos, Cambodia, China, Taiwan, Korea, Bangladesh, India, and Pakistan.  

The average leopard cat is about the same size as your household kitty but there naturally some considerable differences between the two. Although they don't take to it often, leopard cats are incredibly able swimmers and have slight webbing between their toes to not only help them when swimming, but also to help the leopard cat to negotiate the slippery river banks.  

Leopard cats are solitary animals and mark their individual jungle territories with their urine or by scratching marks on trees. The leopard cat is a nocturnal animal and spends much of the brighter daylight hours resting in the trees, as the leopard cat is a fast and agile climber.  

Like other feline species, the leopard cat is a carnivorous animal solely hunting and eating other animals in order to survive. The leopard cat primarily preys on small animals such as rodents, birds, frogs and lizards but will also snack on insects and eggs from nests in the trees.  

Despite it's relatively small size, the leopard cat is nonetheless a dominant predator within it's environment and therefore there are few animals that prey on it. The main predators of the leopard cat are larger wild cats such as tigers and leopards, along with wild dogs and the occasional large snake.   

Leopard cats only really come together to mate which can happen at any time of year. After a gestation period that lasts from 8 to 10 weeks, the female leopard cat gives birth to a litter of between 2 and 4 kittens. Leopard cat kittens are blind when they are first born and usually open their eyes within the first two weeks. The leopard cat kittens are thought to be raised by both parents until they are about 10 months old.  

Today, although not under immediate threat from extinction, the world's leopard cat populations are declining. The primary cause for the decline in leopard cat is numbers is habitat loss caused by deforestation in their native regions.
		 	      

	      The magpie is a small to medium sized bird that is found across the globe. The magpie is most closely related to the crow, but the magpie has highly distinguishable black and white feathers which make magpies easy to spot.  

There are thought to be around 15 different species of magpie spread across Europe, Asia and parts of Australia and Africa. The magpie is generally around 50 cm long with a slightly larger wingspan, although the exact size of the magpie is dependent on the magpie species.  

In China and Korea, the magpie is seen as a symbol of good luck and good fortune. In the United Kingdom however, one magpie is said top be bad luck and seeing two is good luck (one for sorrow, two for joy).  

The European magpie also has the notorious reputation for taking and stashing shiny objects. It has been known for magpies to be attracted to ladies jewellery, along with plastics and even the windscreen wipers from cars. The magpie will often take the wonderful objects is has found and collect them in it's nest.   

Magpies mate for life and mating partners are usually together for their entire lives. Magpies mate in the spring time when the weather begins to get warmer and build large nests in the trees. The female magpie lays up to 8 eggs (usually around 5), which are a surprisingly small size in comparison to the size of the magpie itself. The magpie chicks hatch out of their eggs after an incubation period of around 3 weeks, and the magpie chicks are normally able to fly when they are between 3 and 4 weeks old.  

Magpies are noted to be highly intelligent birds and are often able to sense approaching danger relatively quickly. Magpies are known to be dominant and curious birds but are relatively secretive when they feel they are in danger. Magpies are also known to mimic the calls of other birds and have fully taken advantage of new food sources created by the presence of humans.  

Despite their large wings, magpies are not particularly keen on long flights and tend to stay close to cover. Magpies hide in trees and thick bushes to hide from predators and to catch their prey.  

Magpies are omnivorous birds and eat a range of fruits, nuts, seeds, insects, eggs and small mammals and reptiles. Magpies have a number of predators within their natural environment including dogs, foxes and cats. 		 	      

	      The newfoundland breed of dog is a large working dog whose origins lie on the Canadian island of Newfoundland. Newfoundlands are famously known for their giant size and tremendous strength, and for their sweet dispositions, loyalty, and natural water rescue tendencies. The Newfoundland dog excels at water rescue, due to their great muscles and partly to their webbed feet and acute swimming abilities.  

Newfoundland dogs require grooming at least once per week (and frequently more often). Newfoundlands are extremely loving and patient dogs, and Newfoundland puppies are laid-back and considered easy to housebreak as they are loyal and loving towards their master.  

The newfoundland dog is known to have a very loving and gentle temperament and newfoundlands are thought to be one of the calmest and gentlest dogs when it comes to being around children. Newfoundland dogs are intelligent and courageous and are loyal towards their master and calm with strangers, but newfoundlands are wary of people who have no good intentions. This, along with the deep bark and large size of the newfoundland make them excellent guard dogs and they will protect their family first and foremost.  

Newfoundlands are thought to have derived from mastiffs when they were brought to Newfoundland by the Vikings more than 1,000 years ago. Since then, newfoundlands have been used as working dogs and they are thought to be one of the strongest breeds of dogs in the world.		 	      

	                     	      

	      Leopard Classification and Evolution
The Leopard is a medium-sized wildcat that is natively found in a variety of different habitats across sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia. A member of the "Big Cat" family, the Leopard is an agile and opportunistic hunter that has been able to exploit habitats unused by other large felines as it spends a great deal of it's time high in the tree branches. There are seven different sub-species of Leopard which differ in their appearance and geographic location, with the African Leopard being the most common and widespread and the others being the rare Amur Leopard, the Anatolian Leopard, the Barbary Leopard, the Sinai Leopard, the South Arabian Leopard and the Zanzibar Leopard. Although the African Leopard populations are stable throughout much of their natural range, the story is different for the remaining sub-species that are often isolated and critically at risk (the Zanzibar Leopard is actually now thought to be extinct).   
Leopard Anatomy and Appearance
The Leopard has a long and slender body that is supported by short, stocky legs and a long tail that is used to aid balance whilst in the trees. Leopards can vary greatly in their colouration and markings depending on their surrounding habitat, with those found on open grasslands having a light yellow background coat where those that are found in forests tend to be darker in colour and with more markings. The dark, ring-like patterns that cover the Leopard's coat are called rosettes, but these turn to solid spots on the face and limbs (and rings on the tail) and provide the Leopard with camouflage into the surrounding environment. Leopards are incredibly strong and muscular and are able to pull themselves up trees using their legs and retractable claws. Like a number of other large feline species, the Leopard is able to draw their claws into folds of skin on their paws to ensure that they are not blunted whilst the animal is walking about. Their keen hearing and sight coupled with their long and very sensitive whiskers, means that Leopards are also incredibly well adapted for hunting under the cover of night.  
Leopard Distribution and Habitat
Leopards are not only the widest ranging of all Big Cats but are actually one of the most adaptable and are found in a variety of different habitats. Commonly found throughout sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, there are also small and isolated populations of Leopard inhabiting remote geographic locations in the Far East, Northern Africa and Arabia. The Leopard can be found inhabiting numerous different areas providing that there is a good source of cover and an ample supply of food including tropical rainforests, tree-lined savannah, barren deserts and mountain highlands. One of the reasons why they are thought to be still surviving successfully throughout much of their natural range is that Leopards have adapted to the growing presence of people and are known to both live and hunt in areas close to urban activity. However, in some parts of their natural range populations are threatened by loss of their natural habitats to both deforestation and growing settlements.  
Leopard Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Leopard is a solitary and nocturnal hunter that hunts both on the ground and in the trees. They are excellent climbers and spend the vast majority of the daytime hours resting in the shade of the branches in the trees or under a sheltered rock. They are quite unique amongst large felines as Leopards rely heavily on being able to get close enough to their prey before ambushing it, rather than expelling vast amounts of energy in a high-speed chase. Once caught and killed, the prey is then dragged to safety either into dense vegetation a couple of hundred meters away or up a tree trunk and into the branches. Leopards are highly solitary animals that mark their territory using scent markings and by producing rough, rasping calls that are said to sound like the sawing through coarse wood. Home range sizes vary depending on the habitat and the food available but those of male Leopards are significantly larger than those of their female counterparts, which often overlap the ranges of a number of both males and other females (sometimes by up to 40%).   
Leopard Reproduction and Life Cycles
Throughout their natural range, Leopards have no distinctive breeding season with females instead being able to reproduce every couple of months. After a gestation period that lasts for around three months, the female Leopard gives birth to between 2 and 6 cubs that are born blind and weigh just half a kilo. Leopard cubs are incredibly vulnerable in the wild and so remain hidden in dense vegetation until they are able to follow their mother around at between 6 and 8 weeks of age, camouflaged by their dark, woolly fur and blurry spots. Weaned at around three months old, Leopard cubs will remain with their mother for another 18 months until she is ready to mate again and encourages her young to independently establish their own territories. Although male Leopards are almost entirely solitary except when mating, female Leopards may not stray too far from their mother and often establish a home range that overlaps hers. Leopards tend to live for between ten and fifteen years in the wild, depending on the habitat and the food supply available.  
Leopard Diet and Prey
The Leopard is a silent and opportunistic hunter that only hunts and kills other animals in order to survive. The Leopards primarily hunts medium sized mammals such as Deer and Warthogs, that are often ambushed from the branches above or dense vegetation just meters away. The Leopard however, also eats a wide variety of small prey including birds, reptiles and rodents even hunting Dung Beetles when larger animals are scarce. By eating much smaller (and a wider variety) of prey Leopards are able to avoid intense competition for food from other large carnivores like Tigers and Hyenas, with which they share parts of their natural range. They are also very stealthy creatures that drag their kill into dense vegetation or up into the trees for safety from scavengers close-by. Leopards are incredibly strong and are capable of taking prey much heavier than themselves such as Antelopes, which are then remarkably hauled into the safety of the branches to either be eaten immediately or cached (saved for later).   
Leopard Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Leopard is a stealthy and apex predator throughout it's natural environment, generally the biggest threat to adult Leopards is other Leopards, along with the occasional Lion or Tiger that can get close enough. Young Leopard cubs however, are much more vulnerable and the fact that they have numerous natural predators leads them to remain hidden in dense vegetation for their first couple of months. Although, it is during the times when their mother is off hunting that Leopard cubs are most at threat from Hyenas, Jackals, Lions, Tigers, Snakes and Birds of Prey. Despite their adaptability to differing surroundings, Leopard populations in parts of their natural range are declining due to both habitat loss to the timber industry and agriculture, and hunting by Humans as trophies and for their meat and fur.  
Leopard Interesting Facts and Features
Originally thought to be a hybrid of the Lion and the Jaguar, the Leopard has been the subject of much genetic confusion and wasn't really distinguished properly until just over 100 years ago. Some of the confusion is thought to come from the Black Panther which is a Leopard that has a completely black coat of fur, with occasional faint markings. Known as melanism, the genetic mutation that causes large amounts of a dark pigment to occur in the skin and fur is exhibited by a number of mammalian species. Black Panthers tend to occur most in dense forests with larger populations being found in southern Asia than in Africa, and are born into a litter that also contains yellow cubs. Black Panthers are actually fairly common and amazingly enough, it is thought that up to 50% of the Leopards found inhabiting the thick, tropical rainforests of the Malay Peninsula are black.  
Leopard Relationship with Humans
Since big game hunting took off in Africa, the Leopard has been one of the most sought-after animals for hunters to kill. Part of the African "Big Five" which are the most desirable animals for sports hunters, Leopards in some areas particularly have been severely affected by trophy hunting. In many places Leopards are also often persecuted by local people who kill them for their meat and fur, and also because they are seen as pests to farms and livestock due to their lack of fear of people (although they are very seldom seen). However, recent booms in the tourist industry in Africa has meant that more and more people are paying for the privilege to see one of these majestic animals in the wild, bringing money into local communities. This leads to Leopards being more protected by local people rather than persecuted, as Leopards are providing an important and new-found source of a good income for the local people.  
Leopard Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Leopard is listed by the IUCN as being an animal that is Near Threatened in it's natural environment as populations are stable throughout much of it's vast natural range. A number of Leopard sub-species however, are considered to be either Endangered or Critically Endangered in their native habitats and one is thought to now be extinct. This is thought to be due to the fact that these populations are either small or geographically isolated and are severely affected by local hunting and habitat loss. In a number of African countries however, Leopards are still legally hunted as trophies by sports hunters with annual quotas allocated by CITES (The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species).
		 	      

	      The lynx is a member of the cat family and one of the bigger felines of North America. Lynx are best known for their short stubby tails and the long tufts of black hair on the ears of a lynx.  

There are three different types of lynx with these being the North America lynx found in Canada and Alaska, the European lynx found in Spain and Portugal and the Asian lynx which is found in Turkestan and central Asia.  

The North American lynx is the biggest species of lynx and some of these lynx individuals have extremely thick and fluffy looking fur which keeps the lynx warm in the freezing Canadian winter. The European and Asian lynx species are much smaller in size and have personalities that resemble those of a domestic cat, rather than a large feline.  

The lynx tends to inhabit dense shrub and grasslands in the forests of North America and parts of Eurasia. The lynx hunt small mammals, birds and fish, and the lynx are prey to few predators.  

Although the lynx is a ground mammal, lynx are often known to climb trees or swim in order to catch their prey. Lynx hunt small mammals, birds and fish but prefer to hunt larger mammals like reindeer, deer and elk if the lynx can find and catch them.  

The lynx has large paws which help the lynx to balance and also give the lynx more power when pursuing potential meals. The lynx also has extremely acute hearing which allows the lynx to hear oncoming prey and predators over long distances, and the lynx also has a strong jaw and sharp teeth which the lynx uses to bite down on its prey.  

Lynx are usually solitary animals and will spend their time both hunting and resting alone, however a small group of lynx may travel and hunt together occasionally. Lynx mating takes place in the late winter and the female lynx will give birth to two to six kittens after a gestation period of about 70 days. Female lynx will usually give birth to a litter a year. The young lynx kittens stay with the mother lynx for around nine months meaning that the lynx kittens will have the mother lynx to watch over them during their first winter. The lynx kittens then move out to live on their own as young adults. It is known that adult lynx will give their young the prey to play with it before they eat it as this thought to develop their hunting skills.  

Lynx live in dens in rock crevices or under ledges which gives the lynx a safe place to rest as well as a home for when the lynx kittens arrive and need safely looking after. Lynx do not normally take their kill back to their den, the main exception to this is when the mother lynx is providing for her lynx kittens. Lynx children love to wrestle with each other.		 	      

	       Norfolks are described as fearless, but should not be aggressive despite being capable of defending themselves if need be. They along with  Border Terriers, have the softest temperaments of the Terrier Group.   

Norfolks work in packs and must get along with other dogs. As companions in the bed, they love people and children and do make good pets. Their activity level is generally reflective of the pace of their environment.   

This breed should not be kept or live outside since they thrive on human contact. Generally, Norfolks are not given to unnecessary barking or digging but, like any dog, will do either out of boredom when left alone for too long a period.  

 They generally cohabit well with other household pets when introduced as a puppy. Though, in the outdoors they are natural hunters with a strong prey drive for small vermin.		 	      

	      Electric Eels  are found in the waters of South America, and are capable of generating a 500volt electric shock through 28ft of still water. The shock that the electric eel produces is enough to harm any large mammal, including humans.  

Electric eels can grow up to 2.5 metres and only need to surface for air every 10 minutes due to the eels complex circulatory system. Electric eels tend to live in muddy beds in calm water, eating fish and small mammals.  

Despite the name electric eel, the electric eel is actually related most closely to a catfish and not the common eel fish and many electric eel adults tend to be smaller than their eel fish counterparts.  

The electricity that the electric eel uses to shock its prey, is produced in pairs of organs that are found in the abdomen of the electric eel. These electricity producing organs take up around of 80% of the body of the electric eel leaving only 20% of the electric eels body free to hold the electric eels vital organs that it needs to survive.  

Electric eels are found inhabiting fresh waters of the Amazon and Orinoco river basins in South America, and the electric eels tend to prefer the river floodplains, swamps, coastal plains, and creeks. Electric eels tend to live on muddy bottoms in calm water and in stagnant arms of rivers, where the electric eel spends most of its time hunting.  

The electric eel is also known for its unusual breeding behaviour. In the dry season, a male electric eel makes a nest from his saliva into which the female electric eel lays her eggs. As many as 17,000 young electric eels will hatch from the eggs in one nest. These young electric eels feed mainly on invertebrates found on the river bed, however, first-born baby electric eels have been known to gobble up the eggs from batches of other electric eels that were laid only a short time after themselves.		 	      

	      A mixed-breed dog, also called a mutt, mongrel, tyke, cur, bitzer, feist or random-bred dog, is a dog that has characteristics of two or more types of breeds, or is a descendant of feral or pariah dog populations.   

This term, along with the term pure-bred dog stems from a fundamental misunderstanding of the genetics and misinterpretation of Darwinian theory, and should be viewed with the same scepticism as we view the concept of pure races in human populations. The term cross-breed refers to puppies produced by the breeding technique of breeding known dogs of two different pure-bred dog breeds for some specific reason.  

 The term mutt generally refers to a dog of unknown descent. Dogs interbreed freely, except where extreme variations in size exist, so mixed-breed dogs vary in size, shape, and colour, making them hard to classify physically.
		 	      

	      The manatee is a large marine mammal and the manatee is also commonly known as the sea cow. The manatee is found in warmer waters only in the eastern hemisphere around subtropical regions such as Florida and the Caribbean.   

The average manatee can often weight more than 500kg and can grow to lengths of over 4.5 meters. Despite their large size it is not uncommon for the manatee to reach more than 70 years old.   

The manatee spends most of its time grazing on plants in warm, shallow waters that are seldom deeper than a couple of meters. The manatee is a herbivore and therefore only really feeds on aquatic plants like sea grass and algae but it has been thought that certain species of manatee may eat smaller fish but not necessarily on purpose .   

The female manatee generally grows to larger sizes than the male manatee meaning that the female manatee is also heavier than the male manatee. The large size of the manatee makes the manatee one of the biggest mammals in the world, but the manatee obviously has a long way to go before it will be the size of a blue whale!  

Manatees inhabit warm, shallow marshlands under water, where the manatee spends a great deal of its time sleeping. As the manatee is indeed a mammal, manatee do not have gills and therefore cannot breathe underwater so the manatee has to resurface regularly in order to take in air.   

Manatees usually breed only once every couple of years, with the manatee gestation period lasting about a year. Manatees only give birth to one manatee calf at a time. Mother manatee then spend 12 to 18 months to weaning the manatee calf.   

Manatees can often be seen in large herds, often of more than 20 manatee individuals. This however, is quite rare as the manatee is generally a solitary animal and with the exception of the mother manatee nursing her manatee calf, manatees tend to spend most of their time alone.  

The manatee has been linked to mermaids in ancient folklore and the people of West Africa, believed the manatees to be sacred so anyone that killed a manatee was a sinner. The people of South America, would hunt manatees for their meat and then use the bones of the manatee to treat basic ailments.  

Despite popular belief, the dugong is not another name for the manatee, or even a type of manatee. The dugong inhabits waters close to Australia and although closely related to the manatee, the two have one obvious difference. The tail of the manatee is broad and flat, but the tail of the dugong is forked and therefore more fish-like in appearance. 		 	      

	      The manta ray is a large species of flattened fish, closely related to other cartilaginous fish such as sharks. The manta ray is the largest species of ray in the world with some manta ray individuals reaching up to 9 meters wide.  

The manta ray is most commonly found in the warmer, tropical of waters of the world's oceans, typically around coral reefs and along the continental shelves where food is in abundance. However, due to their enormous size, manta rays are also commonly spotted hunting out in the open ocean.  

The manta ray is a solitary animal and is also a graceful swimmer. Like other large species of fish, manta rays swim by moving their pectoral fins up and down which propels their enormous body through the surrounding water. The short tail of the manta ray also allows the manta ray to be more acrobatic with it's movement, and they have even be seen leaping out of the water.  

Manta rays are known to frequently visit cleaning stations where small fish such as wrasse and angelfish swim in the manta ray's gills and over it's skin to feed, in the process cleaning it of parasites and dead tissue. Manta rays are generally not interested in eating these smaller fish as they are providing a great service to the manta ray.  

Unlike many sharks, manta rays do not actually have teeth and instead sieve the food particles out of the water using rows of tiny plates in their mouths, which they funnel in their mouths as they swim. Manta rays eat tiny marine organisms including microscopic plankton, small fish and crustaceans.   

Despite it's large size, the relatively docile nature of the manta ray means that it is actually preyed upon by a number of large marine predators. Large species of shark such as the great white shark, killer whales and also humans are known to hunt the manta ray.   

After mating the female manta ray lays a couple of eggs which actually develop and then hatch inside her. This process is known as aplacental viviparity and is quite commonly seen in the reproduction of a number of shark and ray species. Within 6 weeks of hatching, the female manta ray gives birth to 1 or 2 manta ray pups, which develop into large adults fairly quickly.  

Today, although the manta ray is not considered to be a species that is in imminent danger of extinction in the wild, the manta ray population numbers have been declining more quickly in recent years. Manta rays are particularly susceptible to pollution in the water and are quickly affected by overfishing in certain areas, and therefore a lack of food.
		 	      

	       The Neapolitan Mastiff is fearless and extremely protective of its home and family. They prefer to be with their family and to remain in and around the home always. They are not a dog to go and wander off.  

 As a guardian breed, they are very wary of strangers, but usually if seeing that their master is relaxed, will soon accept them. The Neapolitan Mastiff rarely barks unless under provocation, renowned for sneaking upon intruders as opposed to alerting them of their presence first.  

 As a breed the Neapolitan Mastiff can be extremely stubborn, but learns things very quickly. Once it understands what its master wants, it obeys. They have a very dominant attitude and must be taught from puppyhood that its master is the boss, not the other way around.		 	      

	      The macaw is a colourful tropical parrot native to Central and Southern America. There are 17 different species of macaw found in the rainforests of South America. Many of the different macaw species are today considered to be endangered animals.  

The macaw is an omnivorous animal and feeds on nuts and fruit in the trees along with insects, eggs and small mammals and reptiles. The macaw is known to sleep during the night meaning that the macaw is a diurnal animal, and in the morning the macaw will often fly long distances in order to find food.  

The macaw is one of the largest species of parrot in the world, with the average adult macaw growing to more than a meter in height. The macaw is well known for it's array of brightly coloured feathers which are often many different colours including blue, red, yellow and green.   

Macaws have recently become very popular as pets, and there is a flourishing black market for some of the rarer breeds of macaw. This only contributes to their endangered status. Please, do not buy imported macaws. The declining macaw populations is also due to the fact that the macaw's natural rainforest habitat is being destroyed due to deforestation, which is happening all over Central and South America at an alarming rate.  

The macaw has a large and powerful beak which means that the macaw can break the shells of nuts and seeds more easily. Like other species of parrot, macaws have four toes on each foot, with two toes facing forward and two toes facing backward. This foot adaptation helps the macaw to grip onto prey and tree branches more easily and allows the macaw to perch in the trees without slipping off.  

Macaws are known to be intelligent and very sociable birds and macaws can often be seen together in large flocks of up to 30 macaw individuals. Macaws communicate between one another using loud vocal calls such as squawking and screaming. Some species of macaw are even known to be able to mimic (copy) human sounds.  

The macaw is one of the world's animals that is known to have the same breeding partner for their whole lives. Macaw couples do not only breed together but they also share their food and help to groom one another. When the female macaw has laid her eggs (typically 2 but more are common), the female macaw sits on her eggs to incubate them while the male macaw hunts and collects food for them both. The macaw chicks hatch after about a month.   

Macaws are well known to humans in the areas in which they inhabit and have been known to be hunted by local tribesmen for their brightly coloured feathers. The macaw however, is also widely respected and even appears on the one of the Brazilian bank notes.		 	      

	       The lionfish (also known as the turkeyfish, tigerfish, dragonfish, scorpionfish, and butterfly cod) is a poisonous spiky fish found in the warmer waters of the western and central Pacific Ocean. The lionfish is a predatory fish hunting small fish, but it's venom is capable of being fatal to larger creatures.  

The lionfish is a popular aquarium fish around the world, although the lionfish is better kept in tanks with lots of space and few other fish. The lionfish can live to around 16 years in the wild and lionfish often live longer if looked after well in captivity.  

There are around 8 different recognised species of lionfish that are found in the Pacific Ocean. The lionfish is natively found in coastal waters around rocky crevices and coral reefs where there are lots of smaller fish for the lionfish to eat and also places for the lionfish to hide.  

The lionfish catches it's prey by hiding in a crevice in the rock or coral and then ambushing it as it swims past.The lionfish then corners it's prey with it's large fins before swallowing it whole.    

Although the lionfish is a solitary animal and they only really come together to mate, a few lionfish inhabit a certain area of the reef. The lionfish group usually contains one male lionfish and a few female lionfish that he mates with. The male lionfish is highly territorial and protects the area in which by himself and his females live.  

The female lionfish releases between 2,000 and 15,000 eggs into the water which are fertilised by the male lionfish. The lionfish pair then quickly hide so that their eggs can float into the ocean before being spotted by predators that eat the eggs. The lionfish eggs hatch in just 2 days and the tiny lionfish fry remain near the surface of the water until they are bigger. When the lionfish fry reach nearly an inch in length, they swim down into the ocean to join the reef community.  

The Lionfish is also an invasive species, originally from the Indian and Western Pacific oceans. It was brought into Florida as an aquarium fish, and after a hurricane broke some of the aquariums containing the fish, they started to appear around the lower coast of Florida. They have now spread all the way up to Long Island, New York.  

When scientists do dives to study the lionfish, sometimes they kill one, and trace it's DNA. The odd thing lately, is that all the fish trace back to an original six or seven Lionfish from the ocean in which they came.
		 	      

	      There are two recognised subspecies of minke whale, the common minke whale and the larger Antarctic minke whale, both however are classified as baleen whales meaning that minke whales filter food from the water rather than biting it.  

The common minke whale (dwarf minke whale) is generally found in the North Atlantic Ocean and also parts of the North Pacific Ocean. The common minke whale (dwarf minke whale) is the smaller of the two minke whale subspecies with adult common minke whales reaching about 5 m in length.  

The Antarctic minke whale is found inhabiting the frozen Antarctic waters but the Antarctic minke has also been known to venture into the Southern Atlantic Ocean and occasionally the Southern Pacific Ocean. The Antarctic minke whale is the larger of the two minke whale subspecies, and at around double the size of the common minke whale, some adult Antarctic minke whales grow to more than 10 meters in length!  

Despite the clear division of the two minke whale species territories, it is not uncommon for the common minke whale to be found in the waters of the southern hemisphere although the Antarctic minke whale is rarely found too far north. The reason behind this is thought to be because the common minke whale can survive in more temperate waters, where the Antarctic minke whale prefers to inhabit the more frozen ones.  

The minke whale has a carnivorous diet, as the minke whales filters to water in the oceans to extract nutrients from it. Amongst the most common minke whale meals are krill and plankton, but minke whales will often eat small fish and crabs. As the minke whale is a type of baleen whale, the minke whale does not have teeth as such. The tiny bristle like teeth in the mouth of the minke whale means that the minke whale cannot really bite down on food, so the minke whale uses its teeth to filter food particles out of the water.  

Minke whales tend to breed in the late winter to early spring, with minke whale breeding occurring near the surface of warmer waters. The gestation period is about 10 months and the calf is born near the surface of warm, shallow waters. The newborn minke whale calf is able to swim to the surface of the water within 10 seconds for its first breath with a little help from its mother who uses her flippers to guide the minke whale calf to the surface. Minke whales calves are usually able to swim within their first half and hour of life.		 	      

	      The Malayan civet (also known as the Oriental civet) is a species of civet natively found across the Malaysian Peninsula and on a number of the islands that surround it. The Malayan civet is one of the most distinguishable species of civet due to it's dark legs, and the spot-like markings that form stripes along it's body.  

The Malayan civet is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and rainforests throughout mainland Malaysia and is also found on a number of the large tropical islands close by including the Philippines, Borneo and Sumatra. Unfortunately, Malayan civets have been drastically affected by increasing deforestation (and therefore habitat loss) in their native regions.  

The Malayan civet is widely spread and fairly commonly found throughout much of South-East Asia and despite their cat-like appearance and behaviours, civets are not felines at all but are in fact more closely related to other small carnivores including weasels and mongooses. One of the Malayan civets most distinctive features is its long tail which is marked by up to 15 black bands and is actually thought to provide the Malayan civet with more camouflage in the jungle.  

The Malayan civet is solitary animal that only comes out under the cover of night to hunt and catch food. These nocturnal animals are primarily ground-dwelling, foraging for rodents on the forest floor, although the Malayan civet is known to climb up into the trees either in search of food or to hide from approaching predators.  

The Malayan civet is a carnivorous animal, and like other species of civet, it survives on a purely meat-based diet. Small animals such as rodents, lizards, snakes and frogs make up the majority of the Malayan civet's diet, along with insects and other small creatures scuttling through the under-growth.  

Despite being a secretive yet relatively ferocious carnivore, the Malayan civet is actually preyed upon by a number of predators within their natural environment. Large predatory cats are the most common predators of the Malayan civet including tigers and leopards along with reptiles such as large snakes and crocodiles.  

The female Malayan civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The babies are weaned by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves. Malayan civets can live for up to 20 years, although most rarely get to be this old.  

Today, the Malayan civet is under threat from deforestation and therefore drastic loss of much of its natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in the area is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations.
		 	      

	       The nightingale is a small species of bird thought to be formally members of the thrush family. The nightingale is often mistaken for the robin, as the nightingale is about the same size and the female robin is very similar in appearance to the nightingale.  

The nightingale is a morning bird and the nightingale can often be heard singing it's loud song at dawn. In urban areas, the nightingale will sing even louder at dawn to make up for the extra background noise.  

The nightingale breeds naturally in the European and Asian forests during the summer months and the nightingale then migrates to Africa for the winter, to it's warmer climates. The nightingale returns north in the spring again to nest.  

The nightingale is believed to have been named more than 1,000 years ago, with the term nightingale meaning night songstress in Anglo-Saxon. The nightingale was named due to the fact that the nightingale is often heard singing during the night as well as during the day. It is thought that it is the single (unpaired) male nightingales that sing during the night which they do to try and attract a mate.  

Nightingales are small birds with the average adult nightingale being around 15cm in height. The nightingale has plain brown feathers covering it's body and is known to have a red-sided tail.  

Nightingales are omnivorous birds and feed on a mixture of fruits, seeds, insects and nuts. Nightingales have many predators in their natural environment mainly due to their small size. Predators of the nightingale include mammals such as rats, foxes and cats and reptiles like large lizards and snakes. Nightingales are also hunted by large birds of prey.  

Nightingales inhabit thick forests and woodland in Europe and Asia, excluding those that are in the far north. Despite the large number of nightingales present in their natural habitats, nightingales can often be difficult birds to spot. Nightingales can be heard easily due to their loud singing but are often found hiding in dense foliage out of sight.  

Nightingales mate in the spring, and the female nightingale build a cup-shaped nest in a dense thicket close to the ground. Nightingale nests are often very hidden from the outside world, and are made up of twigs, leaves and grass. The female nightingale lays between 2 and 5 eggs per clutch, and the nightingale chicks hatch after an incubation period of just a couple of weeks.   

Nightingales travel vast distances every year in order to migrate between the north and the south. The average lifespan of the nightingale is around 2 years, although some nightingale individuals (particularly those nightingales in captivity) have been known to live for a far amount longer.  

Nightingales are named so because they frequently sing at night as well as during the day. The name has been used for well over 1,000 years, being highly recognizable even in its Anglo-Saxon form - 'nihtingale'. It means 'night songstress'. Early writers assumed the female sang when it is in fact the male. The song is loud, with an impressive range of whistles, trills and gurgles. It's song is particularly noticeable at night because few other birds are singing. This is why it's name includes "night" in several languages.  

Only unpaired males sing regularly at night, and nocturnal song is likely to serve attracting a mate. Singing at dawn, during the hour before sunrise, is assumed to be important in defending the bird's territory. Nightingales sing even more loudly in urban or near-urban environments, in order to overcome the background noise. The most characteristic feature of the song is a loud whistling crescendo, absent from the song of Thrush Nightingale. It has a frog-like alarm call.
		 	      

	      There are two types of elephant seal found in the worlds oceans. The northern elephant seal is found in the Northern Hemisphere in the Pacific Ocean near to the coast of Mexico, Canada and the USA. The southern elephant seal is found in the southern hemisphere on the coast of Argentina, South Africa and New Zealand.  

The elephant seal is the largest species of seal in the world with the average male elephant seal growing to around 5 m long. The female elephant seals are generally quite a bit smaller than the male elephant seals, and the female elephant seals therefore grow to around 3m.  

Elephant seals get their name from the large proboscis (nose) of the adult male elephant seal which closely resembles an elephants trunk. The male elephant seals proboscis is used to make extremely loud roaring noises, especially during the mating season. The male elephant seals long nose also acts as a  rebreather, which allows the male elephant seal to conserve vital moisture.  

Elephant seals spend around 80% of their lives in the oceans, where the elephant seals hunt for fish, squid, octopus, eels and even small sharks. The southern elephant seal has also been known to hunt the smaller species of penguin.  

Elephant seals are able to hold their breath underwater for over 2 hours, which is the longest of any water-based mammal. The elephant seals dive to depths of around 500 meters to hunt for food but some elephant seals have been observed diving to more than 1,500 meters underwater. The male elephant seals are able to stay at such depths for up to an hour, but the female elephant seals tend to resurface after approximately 20 minutes.  

Elephant seals have a thick skin and fur to keep them warm in the freezing cold waters, but it is the thick layer of blubber that the elephant seal has under its skin that does the best job at insulating the elephant seal. The skin of the elephant seal molts every year and the elephant seals have to find land in order for the old skin of the elephant seal to molt and the new of the elephant seal to regrow. The molting process of the elephant seal does not occur during mating season, so the male elephant seals are able to stop fighting as there are no child-bearing females to protect.		 	      

	      Emperor Penguin Classification and Evolution
The Emperor Penguin is found on and around the Antarctic continent and is not just the largest species of penguin in the world but also one of the most unique. Instead of breeding in the warmer summer months like other penguin species, Emperor Penguins lay and incubate their eggs during the coldest time of year in the coldest place on Earth. Emperor Penguins are flightless birds that have small, stiff wings that help them to fly through the water, rather than through the air. Despite having been first recorded by Captain Cook on his second voyage in the late 1700s, the first Emperor Penguin colony wasn't discovered until 1902 with their extreme southerly-dwelling nature leading to new colonies still being recorded as late as 1986. Due to the fact that Emperor Penguins breed on the ice, they are thought to be one of the only species of bird that could spend their whole life without actually walking on land.  
Emperor Penguin Anatomy and Appearance
The Emperor Penguin is a large bird that stands up to more than a meter in height. Their feathers vary in colour from black on the back to white on the front with a yellow patch towards the neck. The black and white colouration is thought to be particularly important for camouflaging the Emperor Penguin from predators whilst in the ocean. They also have yellow ear-spots and a orange-yellow strip that runs the length of their black beak, which is relatively small in size to retain heat. Their black, clawed feet are also webbed to help them when swimming but provide little assistance when walking about on land (instead Emperor Penguins slide along on their belly). In order to keep themselves warm in such hostile conditions, they have a triple layer of dense, oily and waterproof feathers and a thick layer of blubber under their skin. They are also well adapted for swimming with their streamlined bodies gliding through the water, propelled by their small, rigid wings.   
Emperor Penguin Distribution and Habitat
Emperor Penguins are found in the deep south, inhabiting the compacted ice on the Antarctic continent and along the coast. Coming onto land to breed, they can travel distances of up to 200km across the ice to reach their breeding colony before returning to the open ocean to feed. Unlike a number of other penguin species that may visit the Antarctic continent from time to time, the Emperor Penguin does not migrate north and instead spends the whole year deep in the Southern Ocean. In fact, only two of the forty known Emperor Penguin colonies breed on ice that is not attached to the Antarctic mainland. Emperor Penguins however, are being increasingly affected by habitat loss in the form of global warming that not just reduces the amount of pack ice surrounding the continent but also causes it to melt earlier in the year.  
Emperor Penguin Behaviour and Lifestyle
Emperor Penguins are incredibly sociable birds that live together in colonies that can contain thousands of individuals. Once having found a mate, Emperor Penguins remain faithful to one another for life and use vocal calls to find each other again when they return to the breeding site. They are excellent swimmers that are also known to leap out of the water when they are travelling at speed in the same way as dolphins. Known as "porpoising" it allows the Emperor Penguin to breathe but without having to slow down. They are also known to dive to depths of more than 500 meters making them the deepest diving birds in the world, where they are able to hold there breath for up to 20 minutes at a time. Usually travelling at speeds of between 5 and 10 kph but capable of swimming at 24 kph, Emperor Penguins can travel as far as 1,000km on a foraging trip.   
Emperor Penguin Reproduction and Life Cycles
Emperor Penguins breed every year in the winter months which are the coldest, darkest and most hostile months of the Antarctic year. They begin arriving in their breeding colonies that can be many miles from the ocean between March and April and once having found their mate, the females lay a single egg from May to June. The egg is quickly transferred to the male who rests it on his feet to stop it from touching the frozen ground, and covers it with a warm brood pouch that keeps the egg warm. Female Emperor Penguins then leave for the open ocean where they forage for food for two whole months, leaving the males to look after the eggs during the winter months. Temperatures can reach -60 degrees centigrade and with winds of up to 100 mph the male Emperor Penguins huddle together for warmth, alternating between the outskirts and the middle to ensure all members of the colony get to keep warm. The eggs hatch after 70 days in the spring which coincides with the return of the females who feed the young and keep them warm using their brood pouch on their tummies, while the males head off to find food. Once having eaten, the males return to help care for the chick which grows rapidly and has developed it's adult feathers by December when the ice is melting and the ocean is then closer to the breeding grounds.  
Emperor Penguin Diet and Prey
The Emperor Penguin is a carnivorous animal that only hunts and eats animals in the surrounding water in order to survive. Fish and krill make up the bulk of their diet along with squid and crustaceans. Like other penguin species, Emperor Penguins have a rough and spiky tongue which helps them when trying to eat slippery fish. Emperor Penguin chicks are not big enough or strong enough to hunt until the ice melts in the summer and so rely on their parents to collect food for them. Males and females take it in turns to leave the chick and head out to the sea to hunt for food before returning and feeding the fast-growing chick by regurgitating a fishy paste from their stomach in the chick's mouth. Whilst incubating their egg throughout the winter, male Emperor Penguins eat nothing at all and can lose up to half of their body weight by the time the chick has hatched two months later.  
Emperor Penguin Predators and Threats
Emperor Penguins are preyed upon by a number of large, marine carnivores but their exact predators do vary between geographic locations. However, despite inhabiting the most southerly and hostile land mass on the planet, Emperor Penguin chicks are still vulnerable and are preyed upon by the enormous Southern Giant Petrel which is an animal that is thought to be responsible for more than 30% of deaths in Emperor Penguin chicks. Adult Emperor Penguins are preyed upon by Leopard Seals and Killer Whales, both of which also take young Emperor Penguins that are only just learning how to swim. Emperor Penguins are also threatened by the decreasing amount of pack ice which is caused by global warming and are sometimes also caught in the nets of large, commercial fishing vessels.  
Emperor Penguin Interesting Facts and Features
When arriving back at their breeding grounds after having been feeding in the ocean for the past few months, male and female partners find one another using different vocal calls. It is thought that the frequency differs between them to make it easier for them to locate one another. The same also applies with parents and chicks when reuniting after a fishing trip. Despite the fact that Emperor Penguin chicks grow remarkably quickly, they are not able to accompany their parents into the water until between November and December and instead gather together with other chicks in small groups to keep warm. They are not just faced with a long walk out to the open ocean until the ice melts further, but they must also wait until they have developed their adult feathers which are dense and oily to keep the young Emperor Penguin both warm and waterproof.  
Emperor Penguin Relationship with Humans
Ever since explorers first started really venturing into the very south of the Southern Ocean and onto the Antarctic continent, they have been fascinated by penguins. In the early 20th century, scientists widely believed that Emperor Penguins were some kind of evolutionary "missing link" and although this theory has dissolved somewhat since then, they are still thought to have evolved from some of the first and most primitive bird species on the planet. Emperor Penguins have been increasingly studied as improved technology has enabled more and more people to visit them in their natural habitat. They have also been hunted and eaten by people in the past.   
Emperor Penguin Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Emperor Penguin is listed by the IUCN as a species that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in the wild in the near future. In fact, their southerly-dwelling nature may mean that they are the least vulnerable of the eighteen different species of penguin. There are thought to be around 200,000 breeding pairs of Emperor Penguin in the Southern Ocean and although populations remain healthy and relatively stable, they are being increasingly affected by the rapidly melting ice and the higher levels of human activity around Antarctica.
		 	      

	      Oceans form the largest habitat on the planet and are thought to be the place where all life started. Thousands and thousands of different animal species inhabit the world's ocean waters and can be found at water depths of just a centimetre to nearly 11 kilometres beneath the water's surface. The oceans are so big that they cover more than 75% of the surface of the Earth.  

There are two main types of ocean habitat which are the coastal, inshore habitats found around the land, and the open ocean habitats that stretch around the globe. Despite the fact that most animal species found in the ocean are found in the richer, shallower waters, animal species can be found throughout the oceans, and there are even some animals which scavenge for particles of food on the ocean floor miles beneath the surface.  

The ocean landscape is vast and extremely varied, and you would think so considering how much of the world it covers. The underwater landscape is made up of continental shelves, volcanoes, mountains, valleys, trenches and large, flat plains similar to the landscape on land only on a much bigger scale. Ocean habitats come in all kinds of forms and animals make their homes wherever they are able to survive successfully.   

The majority of animal species are found in the warmer, coastal waters around the world, generally due to the abundance of food that is found in these areas when compared to the deep ocean. Coastal waters also tend to be safer place for marine animals to inhabit as there are more places for them to hide and fewer large predators to eat them. Smaller aquatic animals tend to live in the shallower regions, and the larger animals live in the deeper regions, generally along the continental shelves beneath the waves.   

Plankton is found distributed throughout the world's oceans and is a vital ingredient in the success of many marine animals. Planktonic life is made up of microscopic plants and animals, and often the fish eggs and animals in their larvae form, that float throughout the waters. Numerous species of animal live on the plankton from tiny fish and crustaceans, to the largest animal in the world, which is the blue whale.  

The two main threats to ocean habitats are pollution and over-fishing. Pollution from the air and the land all ends up in the sea and the extra chemicals in the water can have devastating effects on some animal species. Over-fishing is also an enormous concern as many species, such as sharks, are killed at such a young age and are very slow animals in terms of reproduction, so population sizes are beginning to decrease rapidly.
		 	      

	      The leopard tortoise is a large species of tortoise found throughout the African savannas. The leopard tortoise is the forth largest species of tortoise in the world, and is also the most widely distributed tortoise species in Southern Africa.  

The leopard tortoise has a wide distribution in sub-Saharan Africa from Sudan to the Cape. As a grazing species of tortoise, the leopard tortoise is most commonly found in semi-arid areas including shrubland and grasslands.  

The leopard tortoise is one of the world's largest tortoise species as they can grow to 70 cm in length and weigh about as much as a small person. As with other tortoise species, the leopard tortoise has a large shell which protects it's softer body. The limbs of the leopard tortoise are able to retract back into the leopard tortoise's shell so that no body part is left vulnerable.  

The leopard tortoise is a generally solitary animal that spends the majority of it's time grazing on plants, which it can do effectively using it's sharp beak-like mouth. As with other tortoise species, the leopard tortoise is a long-lived animal species, often reaching 100 years old or even more.  

The leopard tortoise is a herbivorous animal meaning that it only eats plants and plant material in order to sustain itself. The leopard tortoise primarily grazes on grasses, leaves, berries and flowers along with fruits such as the prickly pear.  

Due to it's fairly large size, the leopard tortoise has few natural predators within it's African habitats as many simply cannot penetrate the leopard tortoise's high-domed shell. Humans are the primary predators of the leopard tortoise along with the occasional wild cats and dogs.  

Leopard tortoises are not able to reproduce until they are at least 10 years old (known as reaching sexual maturity). As with other tortoise and even reptile species, the female leopard tortoise lays her clutch of up to 18 eggs into a burrow in the ground, which is quickly covered to protect her young from hungry passers-by.  

Although there are thriving populations of leopard tortoises in more remote areas, when they are close to humans, the leopard tortoise populations are generally suffering, something which is primarily due to over-hunting by humans.
		 	      

	      Moles are a small mammals that are most well known for living in tunnels underground. Moles are commonly found in Europe, Asia, South Africa and North America although there are oddly no moles inhabiting Ireland.  

Moles have long, curved claws which the moles use to burrow underground. Moles can quickly create long tunnels under the surface of the earth and the tunnel entrances can easily be identified by the mounds of earth that appear (normally all over your garden lawn)! These mounds of soil are commonly known as mole hills.  

There are around 20 different species of mole found in their natural, earthy environments. Some species of mole are also aquatic or at least semi-aquatic which means that these mole species spend at least some of their time in the water.  

Many of the different species of mole are very similar in appearance and range in size from just 2 cm to 2 cm. The oddest exception to this is the star-nosed mole that inhabits parts of Canada and the northeast of the USA. The star-nosed mole can be easily identified by the distinctive star shaped ending to the star-nosed moles snout.  

Moles are omnivores that primarily feed and hunt earthworms. The saliva in the mouth of the mole contains a toxin that can paralyze small animals such as earthworms meaning that the mole is able to eat its catch successfully but the mole is also able to store food to eat later. Moles are known to construct special underground larders in which the mole can store its food. Some of the larger species of mole have also been known to eat small mice. The mole does this by catching the mouse at the entrance to its burrow.   

The eyes and ears of the mole are very small and usually covered in fur. The small eyes of the mole are thought to have become like this due to the mole not using its eyes and through natural selection. The most powerful sense of smell a mole has is its sense of smell, and some species of mole (such as the star-nosed mole) are able to detect, catch and eat their prey in less than a second!  

Moles breed in early spring with the female moles gestation period lasting about a month. The female mole then gives birth to between 2 and 6 mole babies. The baby moles are usually completely independent within a month after birth. The average lifespan of a mole is about 4 years but some species of mole have been known to live until they are 6 or 7 years old.  

Due to their small size, moles are preyed about by mammals, birds and reptiles when the moles are above ground. When moles are in their burrows they are relatively safe from harm, with most moles being killed whilst in their burrows from gardeners and their spades.		 	      

	      Lizard is a collective name for the different species of lizard that are found in the warmer climates around the world. The lizard is a reptile with scaly skin, and some species of lizard can shed their tails when the are in danger, but not all species of lizard are capable of doing this.  

There are around 5,000 different species of lizard ranging from small lizards that are just a few centimeters in size, to much larger and more predatory lizards that measure a few meters from the head of the lizard to the tip of their tail.  

Most species of lizard are either good climbers, or failing that good at sprinting which enables all the different species of lizard to escape danger in a flash. Some species of lizard are said to be so good at anchoring themselves into solid material and it has been known that criminals breaking into houses, are able to use the lizard almost like a ladder, and therefore are able to climb up the lizard into the house.  

Lizards are reptiles which means that lizards are cold blooded. Lizards tend to be more active during the night as lizards spend the day basking in the hot sun in order to warm themselves up. Lizards are therefore able to recharge their batteries during the day and can hunt with success at night.  

For most species of lizard, sight is crucial both for locating prey and for communication between other lizards. Due to their extremely tuned eyesight, many species of lizard have highly acute color vision. When communicating most lizards rely heavily on body language as lizards use specific postures, gestures and movements to define their territory, resolve any disputes, and entice mates.  

Most species of lizard are harmless to humans with the main (and obvious) exception of the komodo dragon, which is the largest species of lizard in the world. Komodo dragons have been known to stalk, attack and kill humans that get in their way, primarily aided by the vast size of the komodo dragon. Some species of lizard have a venomous bite but none of these venomous species of lizard is toxic enough to really harm a human. Generally, if bitten by a venomous lizard, humans will receive a nasty and painful bite, which is normally caused by the strong jaws and bite of the lizard rather than the small amount of venom contained in it.  

Lizards lay eggs in which baby lizards have from a few months later. Some species of lizard, such as the slow worm, appears to give birth to live young but this is not technically the case as the female lizard incubates the eggs in her body until they hatch rather than incubating them outside of the body like other species of lizard.
		 	      

	      The mayfly is medium-sized insect that is found in a variety of habitats all around the world. The mayfly is one of the most short-lived animals in the world and is most closely related to dragonflies and damselflies.  

There are 2,500 known species of mayfly generally found close to water, all around the world with over 600 species of mayfly natively found in North America. Mayflies are extremely sensitive to pollution and can therefore only be found close to water that is of a high quality.  

Mayflies have long narrow bodies and large wings, with a second set of smaller hind wings behind them (in a similar way to butterflies and moths). This allows the mayfly to have greater agility and power when it is in the air.  

Adult mayflies tend to be herbivorous only really surviving on algae although there are a number of known mayfly species that prey on other insects. The adult mayfly has a very short lifespan which can be anywhere from to half an hour to a few weeks long.   

The adult mayflies have a number of predators out of the water including amphibians such as frogs, toads and newts, small reptiles, birds and even rodents and mammals. However, the aquatic longer-lived mayfly nymphs too have predators including fish and amphibians.  

The female mayfly can lays thousands of eggs at time which she does so into the water. The mayfly nymph are aquatic and hatch in the water where they can take anywhere from a few months to more than a year to transform into an adult mayfly and head into the air. 		 	      

	      The Old English Sheepdog breed is intelligent, funny, social, and adaptable which means can live outside and inside, although they sometimes seem to not be all that intelligent on first impressions. It generally gets along well with children, other dogs, other pets, and visitors. Like all herding breeds, it requires plenty of exercise, both mental and physical.   

They are bubbly and playful, and some times may be stubborn, depending on their mood. Sheepdogs are excellent, intuitive and loving companions, even earning the title babysitter around young children.  

The herding instinct that has been carried down through the generations is astonishing. They have been known to not only herd livestock, but also their family members. They will push (not bite or nip) any family member away from dangerous objects and people.  

These animals are gentle with other dogs and are always willing to play with you.
		 	      

	      The marine toad (also known as the cane toad or the giant toad) is a species or terrestrial (land-dwelling) toad that is natively found throughout Central and South America. The marine toad is one of the world's true toads and is often used to eradicate pests from sugar-cane (hence it's name).  

The marine toad is generally found in the subtropical forests of Central and South America, where despite it's name, spends it's life entirely on the land. The marine toad has also been introduced to non-native regions as a form of pest control for crops.  

Marine toads tend to be around 15 cm in length although much larger individuals have been recorded. Marine toads are known to have poison glands which ensure that it has toxic skin. This means that if another animal ate the marine toad, it's quite likely that it would lead to near, if not fatal, consequences.  

Along with being used to control agricultural pests, the marine toad also has a variety of other uses to humans around the world. Traditionally, tribes people in South America would milk the toads for their toxin (called bufotoxin), which was then used as arrow poison. There are also suggestions that the toxins produced by the marine toad may have also been used as a narcotic by the local people.   

As with numerous other toad species, the marine toad is a carnivorous animal, primarily surviving on a diet of insects. Due to their large size however, marine toads have also been known to hunt slightly bigger animals including rodents, reptiles, birds and even other amphibians.  

Due to it's relatively small size, the marine toad is preyed upon by a number of different species within it's natural environment. Caimans, snakes, rats, eels, opossums and various birds of prey are all predators of the marine toad.   

Like other amphibians, the marine toad undergoes the incredible transformation from a water-bound tadpole to a ground-dwelling adult in a matter of months. Like it's adult counterpart, the marine toad tadpoles are also highly toxic to any animal that eats them.  

Today, the marine toad populations are thriving around the world due to the artificial introductions of the marine toad to many islands in the 1900s. Since then, the marine toad has become a pest in many of these countries as their ruthless nature poses a serious threat to native species.		 	      

	      The leopard seal is the second largest species of seal in the world (behind the elephant seal) with some female leopard seals growing to 3.5 m in length! The bull leopard seal (male leopard seal) is generally smaller than the female leopard seal with large males growing to around 3m.  

The leopard seal is native to the frozen waters of the Antarctic but is also found to the north in the warmer climates. Leopard seals are often seen near South America, South Africa, New Zealand and around the south coast of Australia often in the warmer waters that are on close proximity of the frozen seas which the leopard seal thrives.  

The leopard seal is a dominant predator in its environment and is rarely preyed upon by other animals with the exception of human hunters, the occasional desperate shark or killer whale . The leopard seal eats krill and plankton in the water but the leopard seals prefer to hunt larger fish and squid. Leopard seals have also been known to occasionally hunt even larger animals such as penguins.  

Leopard seal can live for more than 25 years, with this often depending on the size of the leopard seal and the skills of the leopard seal, as far as hunting goes. Leopard seals are extremely dominant and aggressive predators in their environment.  

Like other species of seal , the leopard seal uses its hind limbs in order to push the leopard seal through the water. Leopard seals have also developed strong front limbs that help the leopard seal to be more agile in the water. The way in which the leopard seal uses its front limbs in conjunction with its hind limbs, is very similar to the way in which seal lions move about.  

The Leopard Seal is a solitary animal with the leopard seals only coming together in small groups when it is time to mate. The female leopard seal digs herself a hole in the ice and the leopard seal pup is born after a gestation period of about 9 months, during the Antarctic summer time. The female leopard seal weans and protects her leopard seal pup until the leopard seal pup is big enough and strong enough to be able to fend for itself.		 	      

	      The mongoose is a small rodent-like mammal, the mongoose is similar in appearance to the meerkat and the weasel. Mongoose are naturally found in Asia, Africa and parts of Europe but the mongoose has also been artificially introduced to the Caribbean in more recent times.  

The mongoose is an omnivore, meaning that mongoose eat both plants and animals. The mongoose in Africa has caught the attention of humans, as they appear to be almost immune the poison of a snake.   

The mongoose is slightly lighter than the weasel, meaning that the mongoose is able to avert danger more readily than a weasel as a mongoose is able to see oncoming predators with greater ease.  

There are thought to be around 30 different species of mongoose, some of which will only fend for themselves while other species of mongoose work together as a team. The different species of mongoose also vary in size ranging from less than 1 foot to nearly three foot in height.  

Many species of mongoose have adapted to their particular habitat as some species of mongoose are found to live in the tops of trees where other species of mongoose have adapted to living partially in the water. A number of mongoose species are also known to have patterned fur or ringed tails, this however is not the case with every species of mongoose.  

The typical mongoose has a long-shaped face and body, short legs and little round ears. Many mongoose individuals are found living in burrows which the mongoose tend to dig themselves, the mongoose however, will not pass up the opportunity to hide in an abandoned burrow of another small animal.  

The female mongoose tends to produce only one litter of pups a year, but she is able to produce another litter if for some reason, the first litter is lost. The young mongooses are weaned at around 6 weeks old, and the baby mongooses then begin to forage with their mother until they are 4 months old. The male mongoose babies will leave their mother when they are around 6 months old, while the female mongoose babies will stay longer, sometimes even permanently.		 	      

	      The mandrill is a medium to large sized primate, natively found in a small pocket of tropical jungle in western-central Africa. The mandrill is most commonly known for it's red and blue coloured nose and it's multicoloured rear end.  

The mandrill is not related to the great apes but is thought to be closely related to the baboon, another medium-sized African primate that is found in eastern and southern Africa. The mandrill was even once thought to be a sub-species of baboon but this is now not believed to be the case.  

The Mandrill is found in the tropical rainforests and occasionally grasslands of southern Cameroon, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, and Congo in western-central Africa. The mandrill's habitat is bordered by the Sanaga River to the north and the Ogooué and Ivindo rivers to the east. Recent research suggests that mandrill populations north and south of the Ogooué river are so genetically different that they are in fact separate subspecies.   

Mandrills have distinctively coloured noses and rumps which make them stand out in the forest. The colours of the females nose are much duller than the males, and the females are also nearly half the size of the male. The male mandrill has incredibly long teeth, which he bares as a caution to approachers. The male mandrill has these adaptations so that he can show himself off to other mandrill and also intimidate predators.  

Mandrills are sociable animals and inhabit areas of forest in large groups known as a troop. The mandrill troop primarily includes female mandrills and their young who are led by a single dominant male mandrill. The alpha male mandrill both mates with his females and protects them. Most adult male mandrills that are not leading a troop tend to be solitary animals.  

Mandrills are omnivorous animals and therefore eat almost anything. The mandrill primarily feeds on fruits, berries, seeds, nuts, roots, leaves, insects and even small mammals and reptiles. Most of the mandrills diet is found at ground level or just above.  

Due to their large size, mandrills have few predators in their natural environment. The leopard is the main predator of the mandrill, along with large snakes and birds of prey, who prey more upon the mandrill young. The human is also one of the mandrill's main predators as they have hunted the mandrill over the years for meat.  

Today the mandrill is considered to be an animal species that is vulnerable to extinction, as mandrill population numbers have been declining due to over-hunting an habitat loss.		 	      

	      Lion Classification and Evolution
The Lion is one of the largest, strongest and powerful felines in the world second only in size to the Siberian Tiger. They are the largest cats on the African continent and are unique among felines in a number of ways but the biggest difference between Lions and other cats is that they are incredibly sociable animals that live together in family groups known as prides. Lions are also part of the big cat family meaning that both males and females are able to roar. Despite having once roamed across much of Africa and even parts of Europe and Asia, the world's remaining Lion population now resides in sub-Saharan Africa. However, with Lion numbers thought to have dropped by 30% over the past 20 years these enormous predators are sadly becoming more and more vulnerable in their decreasing natural environment.   
Lion Anatomy and Appearance
Lions have a short coat of tawny or golden fur with a long tail that has a tuft of longer fur at the end. The markings on their coats are much fainter than the bold stripes and spots displayed on other felines which helps these large carnivores in going unseen when stalking prey in the long grasses. The Lion is one of the largest cats in the world with males being taller and heavier than females and displaying a mane of long hair around their faces (in fact, it is the only case in the feline world where males and females actually look different). Thought to be connected with testosterone levels, the mane of the male Lion ranges from blonde, to red, brown and black in colour and covers their head, neck and chest. Lions have strong and powerful jaws that contain 30 teeth in total which includes four fang-like canines and four carnassial teeth that are perfectly designed for slicing through flesh.  
Lion Distribution and Habitat
Historically, Lions would have been found throughout much of Africa and even in parts of Europe and Asia as well. Today however, they have been pushed into more isolated pockets of their once vast natural range with the remaining African Lion population now only found in countries in sub-Saharan Africa. There is also still a small population of Asiatic Lions found inhabiting a remote part of the Gir Forest in India where there are an estimated 300 individuals remaining. Despite their dwindling numbers, Lions are actually incredibly adaptable animals that can and will inhabit very dry climates as they get most of the moisture they need from their food. They prefer areas of open woodland, scrub and long grasslands where there is not only plenty over cover but also a wide variety of prey. They are only not found in areas of rainforest or far into deserts.   
Lion Behaviour and Lifestyle
Lions are unique among cats as they live together in strong social groups. A pride is made up of 5-15 related females and their cubs along with a generally single male (small groups of 2 or 3 though are not uncommon). Male Lions patrol a territory of around 100m² marking trees and rocks with urine and roaring to warn off intruders. Although male Lions can defend their pride to great effect, their position in the pride is constantly under threat from other males who try to take over their patch and if successful, they will kill any cubs that were sired by the previous male. Despite their enormous size, male Lions actually do hardly any of the hunting as they are often slower and more easily seen than their female counterparts. The Lionesses in the pride hunt together meaning that they are not only more successful on their trips, but they are also able to catch and kill animals that are both faster than them and much bigger.   
Lion Reproduction and Life Cycles
Both male and female Lions are able to reproduce between the ages of two and three but despite this, they will often not breed until the pride has been firmly established. After a gestation period that lasts for nearly four months female Lions give birth to between one and six cubs that are born blind and are incredibly vulnerable in their new surroundings. The fur of Lion cubs is covered in darker spots that help to camouflage them into their den to protect them whilst the adults have gone out to hunt. Sadly however, less than half of cubs make it to be a year old and four out of five have died by the time they are two, generally either from animal attacks or starvation.  Remarkably though, the female Lions in the pride will have their cubs at around the same time and will help to suckle and care for the cubs of other females. Lion cubs suckle on milk until they are about six months old and although they won't begin actively hunting until they are about a year old, Lion cubs start to eat meat after 12 weeks or so.  
Lion Diet and Prey
The Lion is a large and carnivorous animal that survives only by eating other animals in order to sustain itself. Unlike other felines, Lions are not solitary hunters but instead the Lionesses work together in order to chase down and catch their prey with each female having a different strategic role. This strategy allows them to kill animals that are both faster and much larger than they are including Buffalo, Wildebeest and even Giraffe. Depending on the abundance and variety of prey species within their territory, Lions primarily catch Gazelle, Zebra and Warthog along with a number of Antelope species by following the herds across the open grasslands. They will not turn their noses up though at hunting alone should the situation arise and will happily steal the kill of another animal. Once the animal has been caught though, circumstances change as the females will allow the male Lion to eat first before indulging themselves. The cubs however are at the bottom of the pile and have to be content with what remains once the adults have finished.   
Lion Predators and Threats
The Lion is the most dominant predator within it's environment meaning that other animals pose little or no threat to them, with the exception of Hyena packs that can cause fatal damages to Lions particularly when they are on their own and food is about. Lions are seen as a great threat by many other species including both Giraffes and Elephants which are easily capable of fatally injuring a Lion to try and warn it off. The biggest threat to Lions though is people who not only kill them out of fear (and historically as trophies), but have caused severe declines in Lion population numbers due to growing Human settlements and the clearing of land for agriculture. Lion numbers have also been severely affected by diseases passed through Hyenas from Wild Dogs, with more than 1,000 Lions having died from canine distemper between 1993 and 1997.  
Lion Interesting Facts and Features
Young Lion cubs spend a great deal of time playing together which actually helps them to develop their hunting techniques. This method of role-playing in cubs also helps females to determine whether or not they would be suited better to chasing and cornering prey, or catching and killing it. Although Lions are able to make a number of different sounds it is their roar that is most distinctive and not only serves to warn off strange males, but also allows members of the pride to find one another as it's sound can travel up to six miles! The Lion has large paws with soft pads underneath and sharp retractable claws on the end of each toe which aid them in running, climbing and catching their prey along with also being good defence mechanisms. The structure of their feet and legs means that they are also able to jump distances over 10 meters.  
Lion Relationship with Humans
Lions have been admired and feared by people for centuries but due to both hunting and growing Human settlements, Lions have been wiped out from a vast portion of their historical natural range. Although they do not naturally see people as prey, African Lions have been known to sneak into villages (sometimes of great size) to find food, and are known to attack up to 700 people every year, with Lions being responsible for 100 human fatalities annually in Tanzania alone. In 1898, two Lions in Kenya (known as Tsavo lions - a species of mane-less Lion) became famous for killing and eating over 130 rail-road workers over a period of around 9 months. These powerful predators are largely feared by people who once hunted them as trophies and have also always done so out of fear.  
Lion Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Lion is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Vulnerable from extinction in it's natural environment in the near future. Although population numbers would have been vast in comparison to what they are now, over the past 20 years we have lost around 30% of the Lion population from sub-Saharan Africa with estimated population numbers ranging between 16,500 to 30,000 individuals (half of what they were in the 1950s). The main reason for the rapid demise of Africa's remaining Lion population is thought to be due to habitat loss as they are not only loosing big chunks of their native ranges, but are also often then forced onto farmland or into settlements to find food meaning they are often killed.
		 	      

	      The markhor is an endangered species of wild goat that is natively found in the mountainous regions of western and central and Asia. The markhor is thought to have been named using the Persian word for snake, either because of the large coiled horns of the markhor or due to it's ability to kill snakes in the wild, although the exact reason is unknown.  

The markhor is found in northeastern Afghanistan, Gilgit-Baltistan, Hunza-Nagar Valley, northern and central Pakistan and the disputed territory of Kashmir, southern Tajikistan and southern Uzbekistan. The markhor is most commonly found inhabiting the high-altitude monsoon forests that litter these areas.  

The markhor is a very distinctive species of wild goat, easily identified by it's long, white winter hair and the enormous spiralled horns that can grow to more than 1.5 meters in length on the males. The horns of the females are, although still large for goats, generally less than 50cm in length.  

Markhor are well adapted to mountainous terrain, and can be found between 600-3,600 meters in elevation. They typically inhabit scrub forests made up primarily of oaks , pines, and junipers where there is plenty for the markhor to eat. Markhor are also diurnal animals, meaning that they are mainly active in the early morning and late afternoon.  

The markhor is a herbivorous animal that primarily grazes on a variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, herbs, fruits and flowers. Like other wild goats, the markhor play a valuable role within their eco-system as they munch the leaves from the low-lying trees and scrub, spreading the seeds in their dung.  

Despite living almost on a cliff-edge, there are actually a number of animals that prey on these incredibly majestic creatures. Packs of wolves and wild cats such as lynxes snow leopards are the main predators of the markhor, along with humans who have deforested much of their natural habitat.  

The markhor breeds in the winter when, after a gestation period that lasts for up to 170 days, usually one and occasionally two markhor babies (known as kids) are born. The markhor kids remain safe and looked after by their mother until they are able to eat solid food and become more and more independent.  

Today, despite being the national animal of Pakistan, the markhor is considered to be an endangered species with less than 2,500 individuals thought to be left in a few remote areas of the Asian mountains. The decline in markhor population numbers in mainly due to deforestation resulting in the loss of their native habitats.
		 	      

	      The macaroni penguin is a large-sized species of penguin found in the Sub-Antarctic regions. the macaroni penguin is one of six species of crested penguins is so closely related to the royal penguin, that some people class the two as the same species.  

The macaroni penguin spends most of its time during the colder winter months fishing in the cold oceans where the macaroni penguin is more protected from the bitter conditions of the Antarctic winter on the land. However, when the summer is approaching and temperatures at the South Pole increase, the macaroni penguin makes it way to land in order to breed.  

The macaroni penguin is the most numerous species of penguin on the planet as there approximately 18 million macaroni penguin individuals. The macaroni penguin population numbers are declined severely over the past few decades meaning that the macaroni penguin is today considered to be a vulnerable species.  

Macaroni penguins are one the biggest and heaviest species of penguin as adult macaroni penguins generally average about 70cm in height. The macaroni penguin also has a couple of very distinctive features including a long red-coloured beak and a crest of thin bright-yellow feathers on its head.  

Like other penguin species, the macaroni penguin is a carnivorous animal as the only source of food is in the surrounding water. The macaroni penguin spends six months during the cold winter months hunting fish, squid, krill and crustaceans which the macaroni penguin catches in its long beak.  

The macaroni penguin only has a couple of natural predators in the freezing Antarctic Ocean as there are only a number of animal species that can survive there. Leopard seals, killer whales and the occasional passing shark are the only real predators of the macaroni penguin.  

The macaroni penguin returns to the land during the warmer summer months in order to breed. Macaroni penguins gather in large colonies which can contain up to 100,000 individuals in order to lay their eggs. Female macaroni penguins generally lay two eggs a couple of days apart that hatch after about six weeks. Both the male and female macaroni penguin parents help to incubate the eggs and raise the chicks.		 	      

	      The little penguin is the smallest species of penguin in the world, with the average adult little penguin rarely reaching half a meter in height. The little penguin has a number of other common names including the fairy penguin, the little blue penguin and simply just the blue penguin.  

The little penguin is one of the few species of penguin to be found north of the Antarctic Ocean, as this small species is found inhabiting the rocky coastlines of New Zealand, Tasmania and parts of southern Australia. There have also been reports of the little penguin being found in Chile and in parts of South Africa.  

The little penguin is named both for is small size (with the average weight being just over 1kg) and for it's blue coloured feathers. The short feathers of the little penguin are of a blue/grey colour with a large white patch on their underside, which makes these birds very distinctive amongst all penguin species.  

The little penguin is one of the only species that is under threat from land-based mammalian predators and so have evolved to making their tiny appearance more intimidating. Little penguin spend the whole year together as a colony so that they are able to employ the safety in numbers strategy when there are hungry predators about.   

The little penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the little penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish.  

Little penguins are more under threat from land-based animals such as dogs, cats and foxes that have been introduced into their native habitats. However, larger marine animals will also prey on these water-based birds, with fur seals, leopard seals, sharks, humans and killer whales being the main predators of the little penguin.  

On average, the little penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female little penguin lays two eggs into a self-dug burrow which are incubated by both parents for just over a month, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The little penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are around three months old.  

Today, the little penguin populations have been declining with the increasingly threat from non-native carnivores. Little penguins however, are often found on islands that have been declared National Parks where tourists are able to see the little penguin colony in it's natural habitat and are not allowed to take photos.
		 	      

	      The numbat is a small-sized  marsupial that is found in Western Australia. The numbat has long, colourful fur and despite being a marsupial, the female numbat does not have a pouch on her belly.  

The numbat was once found across Southern Australia, but today the numbat is considered to be an endangered species as there are only a few small numbat colonies found in Western Australia today. It has been estimated that there are only 1,500 numbat individuals left in the wild.  

Numbats inhabit forests and woodland, particularly those that are mainly made up of eucalyptus trees. Numbats have also been found in grasslands that are relatively close to water.  

Numbats are solitary animals with large home ranges, which they spend the daylight hours hunting for termites and in the dark nights in hollow logs and burrows. Numbats have strong front claws and long tongues which they use to get termites out of their nests.  

The numbat is an omnivorous animal but it's diet primarily consists of termites and occasionally ants and other small insects. An adult numbat can eat more than 20,000 termites in just one day.  

Due to their small size, numbats are prey to a number of larger, predatory animals such as foxes, snakes, dingos and feral cats. Dogs also prey on numbats, along with birds of prey that prey on the smaller numbat babies.  

The numbat breeding season is between January and May, when the female numbat gives birth to an average of 4 numbat babies after a gestation period of just a couple of weeks. The numbat babies quickly attach to the mother numbat's teat, where they are protected only by her long hair, as she does not have a pouch.   

Numbat babies are not left by their mother until they are a few months old, when she leaves to search for food. The mother numbat leaves her young in a burrow and comes back to give them milk every now and again.		 	      

	      The leaf-tailed gecko (also known as the flat-tailed gecko) is a group of geckos that are found only on the African island of Madagascar and on a number of the little islands that surround it. There are eight different species of leaf-tailed gecko all of which are endemic to the island.  

Leaf-tailed geckos are found in both the primary and secondary tropical forests of Madagascar where they are either found stuck vertically to the tree trunks or resting amongst the twigs, depending on the species. All species of leaf-tailed gecko are being threatened by habitat loss caused by drastic deforestation across the island.  

As their name suggests, leaf-tailed geckos are named after their broad, flat leaf-like tail which extends out between this lizard's hind legs. Leaf-tailed geckos are also brown or green in colour and their skin is usually marked in such a way that it resembles tree bark. This gives the leaf-tailed gecko excellent camouflage when it is basking in the sun amongst the branches during the day.   

Leaf-tailed geckos can range in size from just 10cm to more than 30cm in length depending on the species. Some of the different species of the leaf-tailed gecko include the Spearpoint leaf-tailed gecko, the Henkel's leaf-tailed gecko, the Satanic leaf-tailed gecko and the Mossy leaf-tailed gecko, all of which vary slightly in their appearance as well as the areas which they inhabit.  

The leaf-tailed gecko is a carnivorous animal and the bulk of this lizard's diet is primarily comprised of insects. Leaf-tailed geckos also hunt a number of other invertebrates along with the odd small rodents or reptile should it get the chance. Leaf-tailed geckos are nocturnal hunters, most actively searching the forest for food under the cover of night.  

The excellent camouflage of the leaf-tailed gecko can make this animal pretty tricky for predators to spot. Birds of prey such as owls and eagles, along with rats and snakes are the most common predators of the leaf-tailed gecko in it's native environment.  

Due to the secretive nature of the leaf-tailed gecko, little is really known about the reproductive behaviours of this reptile. It is thought that the female lays 2 to 4 eggs and probably has little to do with her offspring once having laid to her eggs where they can hatch in a safe place.  

Today, leaf-tailed geckos are animals that are thought to be under threat in the wild something which has been primarily caused by deforestation across their native island of Madagascar. 
		 	      

	      The Maine Coon cat is native to the Maine area of North America but it is thought to have derived from an American wild cat rather than another breed of domestic cat.   

The Maine folklore is that the Maine Coon cat is in fact half cat and a half raccoon in origin, but it is more commonly thought to be closely related to the North American bobcat.  

The Maine Coon typically has long fur although, many types that existent in Europe have shorter hair and are thought to be related to the wilder European farm cats.  

The Maine Coon is popular domestic breed of cat due to its large size, long silky fur and its calm and gentle nature. The Maine Coon is an intelligent and affectionate breed of cat that loves to be active and to be around humans and other animals.  

The Maine Coon is a very large breed cat, often double the size of other domestic cat breeds. The Maine Coon is thought to be so big due to its supposedly larger wild ancestors. 		 	      

	      The Magellanic penguin is a small to medium sized species of penguin found inhabiting the rocky islands off the coast of parts of South America. The Magellanic penguin is most closely related to the African penguin, the Galapagos penguin and the Humboldt penguin which it is similar in appearance to. Despite being classed as a threatened species, the Magellanic penguin is one of the most numerous of all of these types of penguin.  

The Magellanic penguin is found breed off the coast of Argentina and southern Chile and on the Falkland islands further south. Like other species of penguin the Magellanic penguin spends the majority of it's time hunting for food in the surrounding ocean, coming onto land to nest in large colonies on the beaches.  

The Magellanic penguin is a medium sized penguin that can grow up to 76cm in height. Like other penguin species, the flippers of the Magellanic penguin are not that long but act as the perfect tools for propelling the Magellanic penguin through the water when it is in search of food. Like the other penguins in their group, Magellanic penguins have white and brownish black markings, with a broad dark band running across the top of their white chest.  

Like other penguin species, the Magellanic penguin is a highly sociable bird, living in flocks with numerous other Magellanic penguin individuals. As well as gathering together in large colonies on the beaches during the breeding season, the Magellanic penguin flocks also spend their time out at sea hunting together rather than on their own.  

The Magellanic penguin is a carnivorous predator and it's diet is solely comprised of marine-dwelling animals. The Magellanic penguin primarily hunts cuttlefish and squid in the surrounding waters along with numerous species of fish (including sardines), and krill. Like other penguin species, the Magellanic penguin can dive quite deep for a few minutes at time in order to catch their prey.  

The relatively small size of the Magellanic penguin means that it is preyed upon by a number of hungry marine carnivores. Leopard seals and large fur seals are the primary predators of the Magellanic penguin along with sharks and killer whales. Due to the fact that they nest on quite inhospitable land though, the Magellanic penguin has no natural predators on their breeding beaches.  

Magellanic penguins nest together on beaches on the rocky islands in their natural range. The female Magellanic penguin lays two eggs in a nest on the beach which are incubated by both parents for up to 40 days. Once hatched, the chicks are cared for by their parents until they are about a month old and are able to fend for themselves.  

Today, although quite numerous in some parts, the Magellanic penguin in considered to be a threatened species primarily due to changes in their natural habitats. Oil spills are thought to be the biggest threat to the Magellanic penguin and their native breeding sites across south-east Pacific.
		 	      

	       The Mastiff breed is a combination of dignity and courage; calm and affectionate to its master, but capable of protection. This particular mastiff-type breed is an extremely capable guard. If an unfamiliar person approaches near their perceived territory or its master, the Mastiff will immediately position itself between its master and the stranger.  

 If the approaching person does not back down, they take immediate defensive action. It is because of this instinctive behavior that English Mastiffs have earned themselves a spot in the world's top 5 guard dogs.  

 The breed is innately good natured, calm, easygoing, and surprisingly gentle. It is a well-mannered house pet but needs sufficient room for exercise and activity. The Mastiff is an extremely loyal breed, exceptionally devoted to its family and good with children.


		 	      

	      The moorhen is a generally small-sized bird that is commonly found near large bodies of water such as marshes, ponds and streams. The moorhen is most commonly known for its small black-feathered body and (often) red, pointed beak.  

There are seven different species of moorhen that are found all over the world today from the dusky moorhen of Australia to the lesser moorhen of Africa, and the spot-flanked moorhen of South America. The common moorhen is found throughout the world but does not occur in the polar regions or in tropical rainforests.  

Moorhens spend their life on the water and have a number of adaptations including webbed-toes which aids the moorhen in both swimming and walking about on the slippery banks that line the water's edge. Moorhens are very sociable birds and spends their lives with other moorhens in a group known as a flock.  

Moorhens are omnivorous birds and have diet that primarily consists of small invertebrates such as insects and water-spiders. Moorhens also eat larger animals such as small rodents and lizards and also pick at plants including berries, fruits and seeds.  

Due to its relatively small size, the moorhen generally has a number of predators but this varies depending on the area in which the moorhen lives. Canines including foxes, dogs, coyotes, raccoons and dingos are the main predators of the moorhen along with large reptiles and wildcats.  

Female moorhens begin to build themselves a nest on the ground in which to lay their eggs, in early spring. The female moorhen then lays an average of 7 eggs although the exact number is dependant on the species. The moorhen chicks hatch out of the eggs after just a few weeks, and both the mother and father moorhens helps to incubate the eggs and feed the chicks.  

Despite their environment being drastically altered by habitat loss and pollution, the common moorhen have proved to be a very hardy bird as it stills thrives in most areas. Other moorhen species however are sadly listed as either vulnerable or endangered.
		 	      

	      The molly is a small-sized tropical fish that is found naturally in the warm and peaceful rivers of Central America. Today, mollies are extremely popular fish to be kept in the community of an artificial aquarium, all around the world.  

Mollies are known for their calm and peaceful nature, which along with their brightly coloured bodies, makes them a particular popular choice for freshwater tanks of all shapes and sizes. The male mollies are more slender than the female mollies and have a slightly longer tail fin, making the two sexes easy to tell apart.  

Mollies live amongst the plants in a group containing numerous molly individuals, known as a school. Although this works well for the mollies in the wild, the fast-paced breeding of these molly groups can quickly become a problem in artificial tanks.   

Mollies are omnivorous animals and therefore have diet that is comprised of both plant and animal matter. Mollies primarily eat small invertebrates including insects and bloodworm, along with algae and food particles in the water.  

Due to their small size, mollies have numerous natural predators within their environment, with larger fish being the most common predators of the molly. Aquatic birds and even reptiles are also known to hunt them.  

Unlike many other species of tropical fish, female mollies give birth to live young rather than laying eggs which are very likely to be eaten. Mollies can give birth to up to 100 fry at once, only a couple of weeks after fertilisation occurred.		 	      

	      The nurse shark is most commonly found in the waters around central America, although natural habitat of the nurse shark ranges from the North USA to Brazil and nurse sharks are even found on the East Coast of Africa. The nurse shark is also found around the Caribbean Islands and from southern California to Peru on the American west coast.  

The nurse shark is a common coastal bottom-dwelling shark, found in tropical and subtropical waters around the continental shelves. The nurse shark is frequently found at depths of one meter or less but it is not uncommon for nurse sharks to venture down to depths of 12 m.   

Nurse sharks commonly habitat reefs, channels between mangrove islands and sand flats, where food is in abundance. The nurse shark preys on fish, shrimp, sea urchins, the occasional octopus and stingrays, and as with many other species of shark, the fast reactions and stealthy approach of the nurse shark mean that the nurse shark is easily able to have a meal.  

Nurse sharks are nocturnal animals and are generally inactive during the day. It is in these hours of daylight that nurse sharks can be found together in groups of up to 40 nurse shark individuals. Despite this, the nurse shark is a solitary hunter and will spend the dark nights hunting alone. Nurse sharks appear to have resting spots that they return to daily rather than just resting anywhere. These preferred resting spots of the nurse shark tend to be in crevices in rocks and reefs.  

The nurse shark mating season is in early summer. Female nurse sharks will retain their eggs inside them until they hatch and are fully developed, before a live birth then occurs. The nurse shark gestation period is approximately 6 months, when the female nurse shark will give birth to between 28 and 25 nurse sharks babies, known as pups.  

Nurse sharks are generally known to be one of the more sluggish and docile sharks of the different species of shark. It is because of this that nurse sharks have been hunted for their tough, leathery skin and for their meat. Nurse sharks do not appear to pose any great threat to humans although a number of unprovoked attacks have been recorded.  

Nurse sharks tend to live to around 25 years of age by which time the nurse shark is often over 4 m in length. When the baby nurse sharks are born, they tend to be around 30 cm long and are already fully developed. The darker skin of the baby nurse sharks tends to fade quickly as they age. 		 	      

	      The moray eel is a large species of eel found in warm and temperate waters all around the world. Despite their snake-like appearance, moray eels (along with other eel species) are in fact fish and not reptiles.  

Moray eels are found in both deep and shallow waters in tropical and sub-tropical regions. Although moray eels can be find in cooler waters occasionally, they tend to remain in the crevices deep in the ocean rather than venturing into shore. The largest populations of moray eels are found around tropical coral reefs where they are numerous different marine species found in large numbers.  

There are around 200 different species of moray eel than can range in size from just 10cm long to nearly 2 meters in length. Despite their varying size and colour all moray eels are fairly similar in appearance with an elongated body, slightly flattened towards the tail. Moray eels also have large eyes and mouths which contain large teeth.  

The moray eel is a relatively secretive animal, spending much of its time hiding in holes and crevices amongst the rocks and coral on the ocean floor. By spending the majority of their time hiding, moray eels are able to remain out of sight from predators and are also able to ambush any unsuspecting prey that passes.  

Like many other large fish, the moray eel is a carnivorous animal surviving on a diet that consists of only meat. Fish, molluscs including squid and cuttlefish and crustaceans such as crabs are the main source of food for the moray eel.   

The moray eel is often one of the most dominant predators within its environment but moray eels are hunting by some other animals including other large fish like grouper and barracuda, sharks and humans.  

Moray eels tend to mate when the water is warmest towards the end of the summer. Moray eel fertilisation is oviparous, meaning that eggs and sperm are fertilised outside of the womb, in the surrounding water, which is known as spawning. More than 10,000 eggs can be released at a time, which develop into larvae and become part of the plankton. It can take up to year for the moray eel larvae to have grown big enough to swim down to the ocean floor to join the community below.		 	      

	      Monitor Lizards are large reptiles found in Africa and all across Asia, including the surrounding seas. The monitor lizard is mainly found in jungle areas although some species of monitor lizard are water-bound.  

Some species of monitor lizard are thought to carry a fairly weak venom, for example, the komodo dragon which is the largest of the species. The komodo dragon is native to the small Indonesian island that it is named after and is the largest species of lizard in the world.  

According to legend, monitor lizards were a sign that there were crocodiles close by, possibly due to their standing on their hind legs to monitor their surroundings. Monitor lizards do this so that they are aware of any approaching predators.  

Although many species of monitor lizard are quite big, some species of monitor lizard are smaller than 20 cm in length. Monitor lizards are extremely versatile animals and monitor lizards adapt well into different environments.  

Most species of monitor lizard have a predominantly carnivorous diet, eating eggs, smaller reptiles, fish, birds and small mammals. Some species of monitor lizard also eat fruit and vegetation depending on where they live.  

Female monitor lizards bury their eggs in holes or hollow tree stumps that the female monitor lizard then covers with dirt in order to protect her eggs. Monitor lizards can lay up to 30 eggs at a time, although many monitor lizards lay less, and only a lucky few of the monitor lizard babies tend to survive.  

Monitor lizards are thought to be fairly intelligent animals, with some people claiming that monitor lizards are able to recognise numbers up to six, therefore meaning that monitor lizards are able to count! Monitor lizards mainly use their intelligence in the wild by surveying areas for oncoming danger and for hunting their prey.		 	      

	      Meerkat Classification and Evolution
The Meerkat (also known as the Suricate) is a small species of foraging mammal that is found inhabiting the harsh conditions of the open and arid, semi-desert plains in southern Africa. A member of the Mongoose family, Meerkats differ from the other 35 Mongoose species in a number of ways with the biggest difference being that Meerkats are incredibly sociable animals, where most Mongooses are not (only 3 other species are known to live in groups larger than pairs). There are three different sub-species of Meerkat that are found in varying geographic locations and although they are very similar in appearance, they differ slightly in their fur colouration and markings. All however, live in highly organised communities known as gangs or bands, that rely on one another for their survival in such hostile conditions as whilst the majority of the group is out foraging for food, others stand on guard to keep a watchful eye out for approaching predators.   
Meerkat Anatomy and Appearance
The Meerkat is a small sized mammal that has a long and slender body with a long and light but black-tipped tail that can almost double the animal's total length. Meerkats are sandy to light brown in colour with eight darker stripes on their back, markings on their sides (which are unique to the individual) and a lighter face and underside. They have elongated muzzles with a black nose and dark coloured bands around their eyes. Meerkats have long, sharp claws on their front paws that are curved and can grow up to 2cm long and help them to both dig their burrows and to find small animals that are buried beneath the soft sand. The fur of the Meerkat has actually adapted remarkably to the differing desert conditions, not only helping to keep the animal cool during the boiling hot days, but also acting as a layer of insulation to keep it warm during the freezing-cold winter nights.   
Meerkat Distribution and Habitat
The Meerkat is found in southern and western Africa inhabiting the dry and hostile scrub-lands of the Kalahari Desert. Spanning across five different countries in southern Africa from Angola to South Africa, Meerkats are found throughout this vast, arid region foraging for food on the ground during the day and retiring into their immense burrows in the sand at night. Conditions in the Kalahari Desert are incredibly extreme with temperatures reaching up to 40 degrees Centigrade in the summer (with a sand temperature of 70 degrees), and falling to well below zero down to -10 degrees during the bitter, winter nights. This area of Africa has an incredibly low level of annual rainfall with only a rare, small amount falling generally between January and April and after which, the Kalahari briefly transforms into a well-vegetated and life-filled region before the cooler winter months set in.  
Meerkat Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike all but three other Mongoose species, the Meerkat is a highly sociable animal that inhabits territories in the desert in groups that usually contain between 10 and 30 individuals (although much larger bands are not uncommon in areas where there is an ample supply of food), and consist of three or four family units of a male and female pair, with their young. After emerging from their burrow to sunbathe in the early morning sun, the majority of the band goes off to forage for food while others either babysit the young, or act as guards. By standing upright on their hind legs and tails on the top of mounds and in bushes, Meerkat guards are able to have a good vantage point to watch out for approaching predators, particularly from the sky. One of a series of different alarm calls will then be sounded to alert the rest of the group what the danger is, often causing the whole band to dive into their underground burrow to hide.   
Meerkat Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although there may be a number of breeding pairs in one band, Meerkat society is generally dominated by one male and female pair. Young Meerkats are usually born in November after a gestation period that lasts for around 11 weeks. Having mated with her partner at the start of the summer, the female Meerkat gives birth to between 2 and 5 small kits in a grass-lined chamber in the burrow, that are born blind and without their full coat of fur. Unlike with the rearing of numerous other small mammal species, both females and males tend to their young with males and siblings known to help to teach the young Meerkats the skills of surviving in the surrounding desert. Whilst the majority of the band is out foraging for food, the young Meerkats never stray far from the den and whilst playing in the hot sand, are kept a watchful eye on by an appointed babysitter. Meerkats can live for up to 10 years in the wild but have been known to live for longer in captivity.  
Meerkat Diet and Prey
The Meerkat is a carnivorous animal which means that despite it's small size, it only forages for and eats small animals in order to gain all of the nutrition (and most of the moisture) that is needs to survive. Like other Mongoose species, Meerkats have an excellent sense of smell which is used to sniff out potential prey that is lurking just under the surface of the sand. Once detected, Meerkats then used their long and sharp front claws to dig out their prey, with the majority of their diet being made up of insects and other small invertebrates, along with also eating larger animals such as Lizards and Rodents. Due to the fact that Meerkats are small in size and have adapted to living in such a harsh environment, they must spend a great deal of their waking hours foraging for food as they are known to loose around 5% of their body-weight during the night and must therefore ensure that they have enough to eat every day.  
Meerkat Predators and Threats
Due to the small size of the Meerkat, they are natural prey to numerous animal species that are both on the ground and in the air. The biggest threat to Meerkats are Birds of Prey such as Hawks and Eagles that can spot these animals from high above their heads, along with ground-dwelling predators such as Snakes that hunt them on the ground. In order to try and protect themselves from being so vulnerable in their open and arid surroundings, Meerkats adopt the safety in numbers tactic and ensure that there is always an individual on guard to warn the rest of the group of any approaching danger. In places that are closer to growing Human settlements and near to areas where domestic animals are grazed, Meerkats have been known to contract both bovine diseases and rabies that can affect whole populations of these adaptable and otherwise resilient animals.  
Meerkat Interesting Facts and Features
If the individual Meerkat on guard spots approaching danger they will sound the alarm to the rest of the group. Meerkats are known to use a wide range of vocal calls to communicate between one another sounding long howls to warn the rest of the band of an approaching bird of prey, and using short double-barks to alert them of a predator nearing the group on the ground. The individual territory of a Meerkat group covers a large enough area to ensure that the band has everything they need to most successfully survive. This includes areas of both hard and soft sand as although the hard sand provides the perfect ground for building their tunnels in, it requires more energy for Meerkats to forage for food in it too. Digging in the softer sand requires less effort and therefore means that they can conserve more energy for other activities.   
Meerkat Relationship with Humans
The Meerkat is one of those species that has always fascinated people with their characteristic behaviours having made them one of Africa's most iconic small mammal species. The real delights into Meerkat life were displayed in the BBC series Meerkat Manor which involved the following and filming of one band of Meerkats in the Kalahari Desert. Although they are not threatened by Human activity as drastically as a number of Africa's other unique species, Meerkats have been susceptible to contracting diseases from other animals which can have devastating implications on local populations.   
Meerkat Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Meerkat is an animal that listed by the IUCN as being of Least Concern from being extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Although they are widespread and common throughout much of their natural range, populations in certain areas can be affected by the lack of rainfall or increasing numbers of their natural predators. Populations across southern Africa however, appear to be generally stable with large numbers of Meerkats also found in a few of the big national parks.
		 	      

	      Labradooddles are mixed breed of dog also known as a mutt. A labradoodle is a mix between a labrador and a poodle. People mix the poodles with the labradors so they dont shed like a poodle and are cute like a labrador. The labrador can be any colour and so can the poodle. Also they can use any size of a poodle.  

Like most Labrador Retrievers and Poodles, Labradoodles are generally friendly, energetic and good with families and children (although as with any dog the temperament may vary between individuals).   

Labradoodles also often display an affinity for water and the strong swimming ability present in both their parent breeds. The labradoodle is also highly intelligent.		 	      

	      Koala Classification and Evolution
The Koala is a small to medium sized mammal that is found inhabiting a variety of different types of forest in south-eastern Australia. Despite it's appearance and the fact that it is also known as the Koala Bear, Koalas are in fact marsupials but are so distinctive amongst this specially adapted family of mammals that they are classified in a scientific group of their own. However, although they are now considered to be one of Australia's most iconic mammal species when European settlers first arrived things were very different, with millions of Koalas known to have been killed every year for their pelts (fur). The Koala is a unique animal that famously feeds only the leaves of the eucalyptus trees which they inhabit but this diet is very hard to digest and lacks many of the vital nutrients that are key to the survival of a number of animal species. Today, although populations are stable and widespread the Koala is affected by habitat loss as vast areas of land are cleared every year to support growing development.  
Koala Anatomy and Appearance
The Koala is one of the most charismatic of all marsupials with it's large, wide face and round, white-tufted ears giving it the appearance of a small bear, along with their lack of a visible tail and smooth, black nose. The Koala has dense and soft grey or grey-brown fur which is lighter on their underside and mottled on the rear. Due to the fact that Koalas spend almost all of their lives in the trees, they have evolved a number of adaptations to help them with their arboreal lifestyle including having short, powerful limbs that are tipped with sharp claws. Having two opposable thumbs and three fingers on each hand means that Koalas are able to grip onto even the smoothest of bark when climbing and feeding in the trees. Koalas move about in the trees by jumping, first gripping the trunk with their front paws (helped by their rough paw pads and claws) before then moving both their back legs up the tree together, allowing them to get higher up.   
Koala Distribution and Habitat
The Koala would have once been widespread throughout south-eastern Australia and on a number of it's surrounding islands but populations (particularly in the south) were wiped out in some areas due to hunting. They are however, surprisingly resilient and adaptable animals that are known to inhabit various types of forest from the tall eucalyptus forests, to coastal regions and even low-lying woodlands further inland. Despite the fact that they are common in much of their natural range today, land clearance has not only meant a loss of their habitats but also separates populations from one another making them more and more isolated. It is not just loss of habitat to Human activity though that has led to population declines in certain areas, as quick-spreading forest fires can devastate vast areas of land in minutes and severely affect the local Koala populations in the process.   
Koala Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Koala is a solitary and nocturnal animal that spends most of the daytime hours sleeping in the fork of a eucalyptus tree. Their low-energy diet (that is comprised only of the fibrous leaves of the eucalyptus) leads to Koalas leading a largely inactive lifestyle as they can happily spend up to 18 hours a day sleeping or simply just sit in the trees to conserve energy. Everything from sleeping to eating and even breeding is done in the trees as although Koalas are known to come down to the ground quite frequently, it is only so they are able to move to another tree. Koalas are also sedentary animals which means that they occupy a fixed home range which can vary in size depending on the abundance of food available (home ranges are smaller in areas with more food as there is no need to travel as far). Although the home ranges of males and females do overlap, males will not tolerate rival males intruding on their territory and fight viciously by scratching and biting.  
Koala Reproduction and Life Cycles
During the breeding season, males can be heard producing loud booming calls through the forest which are to both attract a female mate but also to deter any potential rivals. In Koala society it is the dominant male that gets to mate with the most females meaning that although males (like females) are able to reproduce from the age of two, breeding is not normally successful until the male Koala is between 4 and 5 years old and has established his dominance. After a gestation period that lasts for a mere 35 days, a single joey is born that is about the size of a bee and very underdeveloped, and immediately crawls unaided into the pouch on it's mother's belly. Here it attaches itself to one of the two teats and remains in the safety of the pouch until it is weaned at between 6 and 7 months old after having grown dramatically. The young Koala then clings onto it's mother's back where it tends to remain for another few months or until the next season's young has developed and is ready to leave the pouch.   
Koala Diet and Prey
The Koala is a herbivorous animal that only feeds on the leaves of the eucalyptus (gum) tree in order to survive. Despite there being around 600 different species of eucalyptus, Koalas only seem to feed on 30 of them which depends on the surrounding habitat. Eucalyptus leaves are tough and fibrous and often toxic making them inedible to other herbivorous animals but the Koala has evolved to fill this gap in the eco-system and has large cheek pouches where the leaves are stored. Once full, the Koala then begins to grind the leaves down into a pulp using their flat cheek teeth with some of the toxins then being detoxified by the liver. The Koala also has an incredibly long digestive tract to help it to break down the tough leaves which is more than three times it's body length. In order to help the process Koalas are also known to occasionally eat soil, bark and gravel to aid the digestion of such a fibrous plant.  
Koala Predators and Threats
Despite being relatively small, the lack of native mammalian predators in Australia means that adult Koalas have very few natural predators with the exception of large Birds of Prey. Young Koalas are more vulnerable however and are preyed on by a number of different animals including Snakes, but both are most threatened by domestic animals particularly dogs that not only attack Koalas but are also known to spread disease into local populations. This is actually one of the biggest threats to Koalas in certain areas as large numbers of individuals have been affected particularly by the Chlamydia bacterium, which can actually be treated with antibiotics. Other threats to the current Koala populations include habitat loss to growing Human settlements, tourist developments and forest fires that can spread rapidly in semiarid regions. The Koala populations on a number of islands have also been affected by over-population as the increasing number of individuals means that there is less food to go around.  
Koala Interesting Facts and Features
Due to the fact that Koalas sustain themselves on a diet that is only comprised of leaves they have little need to drink as they get almost all of the water that they need through their food. However, living on a diet that is so low in nutrients has led to the Koala evolving a very small brain for it's body size as this organ can drain the body's energy supplies. After having spent their first six months of life developing in their mother's pouch suckling milk, baby Koalas must then attempt to eat solid foods with the first one being the soft droppings of their mother. Young Koalas are thought to do this as it contains a number of microbes that help the young to both fight off disease and to begin digesting the tough, fibrous leaves of the eucalyptus.  
Koala Relationship with Humans
The Koala would have once been abundant throughout the forests of south-eastern Australia but intense hunting of them for their soft fur in the early 20th Century led to drastic population declines and even local extinction in some areas. When the industry peaked in 1924 two million pelts were traded and eventually led to public outcry over the situation. Since then, the hunting of Koalas has been banned and management of populations has seen them increase once again. Despite their rising population numbers though, Koalas are affected by Human activity throughout much of their natural range mainly in the form of habitat loss as vast areas of land are cleared annually for development and agriculture. However, the Koala today is one of Australia's most famous and treasured species of mammal and is found on numerous emblems and in stories not just in Australia but worldwide.  
Koala Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Koala is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Population numbers are not just stable and widespread, but they are in fact too high in some areas with 10,000 individuals having been relocated back to mainland Australia over the past 75 years to prevent island populations from growing out of control. They are however, becoming more and more remote and isolated from one another which could cause problems in the future and are severely affected by introduced diseases in certain areas. Where possible though, infected Koalas (and particularly those that have been attacked by domestic dogs) are given veterinary first aid to try and help them in the future and prevent a large outbreak spreading through entire populations.
		 	      

	      The kiwi is a brown, fuzzy, flightless bird native to the forests and jungles of New Zealand. In recent years the kiwi has become endangered, mainly due to introduced predators like dogs, cats, rats, ferrets and weasels which hunt the kiwi and eat it's eggs. The kiwi is almost helpless against these exotic threats and there are many support organizations for kiwis which run conservation projects to try and protect the remaining kiwi population. The largest of these kiwi conservation projects is run by the Bank of New Zealand.   

There are many different species of kiwi, but all of them can only be found inhabiting the forests of New Zealand. It is believed that the incredible diversity of this island nation is due to its early separation from Australia and the rest of the continents, millions of years ago, by way of tectonic plate shifting.   

The kiwi is the national bird and icon of New Zealand. In fact, the native people of New Zealand are often also called Kiwis. The kiwi also appears on many flags and symbols across the islands.  

The eggs of the kiwi weigh about one pound which is 450g. The beak of the kiwi is about the size of one third of the kiwi's body. The kiwi uses it's long beak to rummage through the foliage on the ground in search of food.  

Kiwis are omnivorous animals and eat a variety of both plants and animals. The kiwi mainly hunts out worms, insects and spiders but also eats fruits and berries, generally those that have fallen to the forest floor.  

The kiwi is thought to be related to the ostrich and the emu, making the kiwi the smallest member of this family of birds. Like it's larger cousins, the kiwi is unable to fly due to it's small wing span and large weight. The kiwi therefore spends it's life foraging on the forest floor.  

Although kiwis are generally solitary animals, kiwis are known to live in pairs for parts of their lives. These kiwi couples mate only with each other and the female kiwi is known to be larger than the male kiwi, meaning the female kiwi is generally the dominant bird.  

Before the introduction of animals such as cats and dogs, kiwis roamed New Zealand in great numbers as there were no natural predators there besides humans. It is since humans settled there with their pets that the kiwi numbers have rapidly declined. Today there are believed to only around 200 kiwis left in the wild.  

Kiwis are very nomadic birds which means that they are known to move around a great deal rather than staying in one place. Kiwis dig burrows during the day which they sleep in at night and then move onto another spot and build a new burrow the next day. The only exception to this is when the kiwi is nesting to lay lay it's eggs. The female kiwi lays an average of five eggs per clutch which take nearly 3 months to hatch. The male kiwi is the one who incubates the eggs for most of the time.		 	      

	      A mixed-breed dog, also called a mutt, mongrel, tyke, cur, bitzer, feist or random-bred dog, is a dog that has characteristics of two or more types of breeds, or is a descendant of feral or pariah dog populations.   

This term, along with the term purebred dog stems from a fundamental misunderstanding of the genetics and misinterpretation of Darwinian theory, and should be viewed with the same skepticism as we view the concept of pure races in human populations. The term crossbreed refers to puppies produced by the breeding technique of breeding known dogs of two different purebred dog breeds for some specific reason.  

 The term mutt generally refers to a dog of unknown descent. Dogs interbreed freely, except where extreme variations in size exist, so mixed-breed dogs vary in size, shape, and color, making them hard to classify physically.		 	      

	      The Monte Iberia Eleuth is a tiny species of frog that, as it's name suggests, is natively found in the woodlands around Mount Iberia. The Monte Iberia Eleuth is the smallest species of frog in the Northern Hemisphere and is the second smallest species of frog in the world behind the Brazilian Golden frog found in Brazil, average less than 1cm in length.  

The Monte Iberia Eleuth is a critically endangered animal that is confined to just two remote areas of forest in Cuba. The Monte Iberia Eleuth was first discovered on Mount Iberia in 1996, and populations are known to be very vulnerable as this frog is only found in very specific habitats that include areas of closed rainforest, with poorly drained soil and high levels of humidity.  

The Monte Iberia Eleuth is a tiny black frog that can be easily identified by the bright yellow stripes that run along each side of the frog's back. Due to the fact that the head of the Monte Iberia Eleuth is about the same size as the head of a pin, this tiny frog has fewer teeth than larger frogs and is also thought to make more highly-pitched vocal calls.  

Only two isolated populations are known to exist, both in the HolguÃ­n Province of eastern Cuba at elevations under 600 meters. The first location is on top of the Monte Iberia tableland where the Monte Iberia Eleuth was first discovered. The second is smaller (less than 100 kmÂ²) and sparsely-occupied, near NibujÃ³n at sea level. This area has suffered great disturbances over the past 40 years from human activities which has obviously led to drastic declines in Monte Iberia Eleuth population numbers.  

Despite it's miniature size, the Monte Iberia Eleuth has a very similar diet to other small frogs, hunting and eating a wide range of invertebrates in the Cuban jungle. The Monte Iberia Eleuth feeds on insects, moths and spiders along with a number of semi-aquatic invertebrates when it is close to water.  

Due to it's small size, the Monte Iberia Eleuth has numerous predators within it's natural environment including birds, rodents, lizards, toads and even larger frogs. The Monte Iberia Eleuth is also an incredibly sensitive animal that is easily affected by changes to it's environment including pollution and deforestation.  

Little is known about the reproduction of the smallest frog in the Northern Hemisphere, besides the fact that once hatched, the life-cycle of the Monte Iberia Eleuth is similar to that of other frogs turning from water-based tadpoles to ground-dwelling frogs. When the first Monte Iberia Eleuth frog was found, she was found next to a single egg which indicates that this species reproduces slowly as they don't lay hundreds of eggs at once.  

Today, the Monte Iberia Eleuth is considered to be an animal that is critically endangered in the wild and therefore population numbers are very low in the wild. 
		 	      

	      The ladybird (also known as the ladybug) is a small colourful beetle found all around the world. There are thought to be more than 5,000 different species of ladybird in the world, with more than 450 species found in North America alone.  

The ladybird is best known for it's spotted body (normally red and black, but often orange and yellow are found), and their ability to rid gardens of their aphid pests affectively. It is thought to be good luck to find that a ladybird has landed on you, and most definitely bad luck if you then squash it!  

Ladybirds are small sized insects rarely growing to more than a centimetre in length. Ladybirds have size legs that are black in colour and their brightly coloured shell, protects the wings of the ladybird which are concealed beneath the spots.  

Ladybirds are known to hibernate once the warm summer weather begins to cool. Ladybirds will hibernate in large groups in sites which are used year after year, and ladybirds are thought to hibernate in this communial fashion in order to increase their chances of surviving the cold winter. It is thought that pheromones are released by hibernating ladybirds which attract other ladybirds to hibernate in the same place.   

Ladybirds are fearsome predators within their environment and are known as gardener's friends as they munch all of the tiny pests that eat the plants. Ladybirds primarily eat aphids, greenfly, plant-lice and other small insects. It is thought that the average ladybird eats more than 5,000 aphids in just one year.  

Ladybirds are prey to a number of animals in their environment that include birds, reptiles, amphibians, small mammals, rodents and other insects. It is thought that the bright colour of the ladybird is used to deter hungry predators as they think that the ladybird will taste disgusting or is poisonous.  

The female ladybird can lay more than 2,000 eggs in one year that hatch in just a few days. The ladybird larvae hatches out of the eggs and looks nothing like an adult ladybird as the ladybird larvae is long in shape and is generally one colour. After a couple of weeks, the ladybird larvae evolves into a ladybird pupa which is about the same size and colour as an adult ladybird but has a protective layer surrounding it, until it has developed it's wings. Once the ladybird pupa has developed, it breaks out of the skin surrounding it to become an adult ladybird.  

Due to climate changes and habitat loss, the ladybird is now considered to be one of the animal species that is threatened with extinction. It has been noted that ladybirds are particularly sensitive to temperature and will die from dehydration if it is much hotter than it should be.		 	      

	      Moose (also known as elk) are found in the cold plains of North America and Europe where they were named by locals as twig-eaters.  

The male moose have enormous antlers that the moose actually renews once a year. After the warmer mating season the male moose will shed its antlers to conserve energy for the winter. In the springtime the moose begins to develop its new antlers which take from 3 to 5 months to fully grow.  

The moose have been hunted by humans for both trophies but also for meat. The moose are also prey to a number of large carnivorous mammals which they encounter such as bears, cougars and arctic wolves.   

There are thought to be six different subspecies of moose found in the sub-arctic forests today. These are the European moose (found in Finland, Sweden and Norway), the Eastern moose (found in the east of Canada and northeast of the United States), the Western moose (found in the west of Canada), the Siberian moose (found in the east of Siberia and Mongolia), the Alaska moose (found in Alaska and Yukon) and the Shiras moose (found in Wyoming and Utah).  

Female moose do not have antlers and tend to give birth to the baby moose after an 8 month gestation period. The female tends to have a single moose calf but twins and triplets have been known. The fur of the baby moose is a reddish colour that turns to brown as the moose get older. The young moose calves tend to stay with the mother moose until just before the next young are born.  

Although moose are not usually aggressive animals, particularly towards humans, when provoked, moose have been known to attack humans. Although the consequences of a moose attack are generally minor, moose have been known to attack more humans than bears and wolves put together.  

Moose live in herds and live until they are about 16 years old. Moose are herbivorous animals and spend their time foraging for vegetation and branches to munch on.		 	      

	      Killer Whales (orca) are found in all the worlds oceans both hot and cold from the freezing waters of the North and South poles to tropical seas. The killer whale is the biggest member of the dolphin family, and there are about 5 different species of killer whale in the oceans.  

Killer whales hunt in groups called pods that normally contain from 6 to 40 killer whales. The killer whales hunt larger fish, seal and sea lion and often sea birds and mammals.  

Killer whales are sadly hunted worldwide for their meat and whale blubber, which is used as an old form of fuel. Due to whaling bans in recent years, the killer whale population can begin to recover again.   

The killer whale is a dominant hunter but gets it name from the amount of meat it eats rather than having an aggressive temperament. Some killer whales are known to be relatively acrobatic naturally, although the majority are trained in zoos and aquariums.  

The killer whale has a top speed of around 30 miles an hour but can travel at 26 mph for long periods of time. It is common for killer whale to swim more than 50 miles without stopping.  

Killer whales are large, stocky animals that have a large dorsal fin, with the black and white markings of the killer whale being their most distinctive feature. Male killer whales are bigger than female killer whales with male killer whales growing to around 8 meters in length. Female killer whales are slightly smaller than the male killer whales with the female killer whales growing to around 7 meters in length.  

Killer whales today are considered to be an endangered species due to habitat loss and hunting from humans. Although killer whales are not generally seen as a great threat to humans, there have been a number of instances, particularly in marine parks, where the killer whale has attacked its trainer.  

The killer whale is often referred to as the wolf of the sea, as killer whales are dominant predators and hunt in packs in a similar way to wolves on land. Typically, an average killer whale will eat over 200 kg of food every day which includes over 20 different species of marine mammal and more than 30 different species of large fish.  

As with their dolphin cousins, killer whales are extremely vocal animals and communicate between one another using clicks and whistles in a process known as echolocation. Killer whales are known to at their most vocal and noisy when the killer whales are hunting and the killer whales are much calmer and quieter when they are resting. Killer whales are known to use different sounds when the killer whales are participating in different activities.  

Female killer whales give birth to one baby killer whale roughly once every five years. Female killer whales do not reach sexual maturity until they are about 15 years old, and the gestation period is thought be roughly 18 months long. Baby killer whales are born with a yellowish tint to the white parts of the baby killer whales skin, which fades into the brilliant white colour as the baby killer whale gets older. Mother killer whales look after their calves for the first couple of years of life. Baby killer whales feed only on their mothers milk until they are about a year old, when the baby killer whale will begin to solid food.  

Killer whales can live until they are 60 years old but this is thought to depend strongly on the will of the killer whale. By means of comparison, killer whales that are kept in captivity will often not live longer than 25 years but in the wild killer whales live for much longer.		 	      

	      The lemming is a tiny rodent that is found in or near the Arctic Circle and are thought to be related to voles and muskrats. The smallest species of lemming is the wood lemming measuring around 8 cm. The Norwegian lemming is roughly three times the size of a wood lemming and is one of the largest species of lemming.  

Lemmings do not hibernate and instead endure the tough Arctic winters, with the lemming having special protection from the cold from its thick fur. The lemmings spend the winter searching for bulbs and shoots that are often buried beneath the snow.  

Lemmings are surprisingly solitary animals, only coming together to mate then separating again. Wild lemmings are thought to never get older than a couple of years due the harsh conditions in their natural habitat and the small and very edible size of the lemming. The lemming is easy prey for most meat-eating mammals and birds.   

The theory that older lemmings consciously jump off cliffs in large numbers in order to let the younger lemming generations have full access to food and shelter etc is a myth. This may have originated from the mass migration of the Scandinavian lemming when food becomes scarce, that run in their hundreds through the surrounding terrain in search of food, with a few unlucky individuals finding their way off cliffs.  

There are nearly 30 different species of lemming found around the Arctic Circle, from Alaska to Siberia. Although many different species of lemming have been recognised, all lemming species are pretty much the same apart from where they live and so the lemming species tend to differ most from one another based on what the lemmings can find to eat.  

Lemmings have small, stout bodies and short limbs, ears and tail in order to allow the lemming to conserve heat more easily in the bitter Arctic winters. Lemmings also have sharp little teeth which helps the lemmings to gnaw through tangles of roots.  

Female lemmings give birth to the baby lemmings after a gestation period of around three weeks. Baby lemmings are born in burrows under the snow which helps to keep the baby lemmings warm and away from the Arctic winter. The mother lemming gives birth to around 7 baby lemmings and feeds the baby lemmings on her milk until they are big enough and strong enough to start looking for food by themselves.  

The food that lemmings eat is not very nutritious, so lemmings must eat lots of it. Lemmings spend around 6 hours a day searching for food and have breaks in between hunting, during which the lemmings rest. Lemmings reside in burrows beneath the snow to keep them warm and safe from predators that lurk on the surface of the snow. 
		 	      

	      The masked palm civet is a smaller species of civet found throughout the jungles of south-east Asia and across the Indian sub-continent. The masked palm civet is also known as the Himalayan Palm Civet and is most well known to the general public as it is thought to have introduced SARS disease to human inhabitants of the native habitats.  

The masked palm civet is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and rainforests throughout much of south-east Asia, and throughout India and China. The masked palm civet is also found on a number of the tropical islands surrounding the Asian continent including Taiwan, Borneo and Sumatra. Unfortunately, masked palm civets have been drastically affected by increasing deforestation (and therefore habitat loss) in their native regions.  

The masked palm civet is widely spread and fairly commonly found throughout much of south-east Asia and despite their cat-like appearance and behaviours, masked palm civets are not felines at all but are in fact more closely related to other small carnivores including weasels and mongooses. The eyes of the masked palm civet are masked by two black bands and are surrounded by a series of white spots.  

The masked palm civet is solitary animal that only comes out under the cover of night to hunt and catch food. These nocturnal animals are primarily ground-dwelling and highly terrestrial as they mark their ranges by dragging their anal glands along the ground. Despite being predominately ground-dwelling though the masked palm civet is known to climb up into the trees either in search of food or to hide from approaching predators.  

The masked palm civet is a carnivorous animal, and like other species of civet, it survives on a meat-based diet, supplemented by the odd plant or fruit. Small animals such as rodents, lizards, snakes and frogs make up the majority of the masked palm civet's diet, along with insects and other small creatures scuttling through the under-growth. Masked palm civets are also known to eat the fruits and flowers of palms, mangos and coffee in their natural habitats.  

Despite being a secretive yet relatively ferocious predatory animals, the masked palm civet is actually preyed upon by a number of predators within their natural environment. Large predatory cats are the most common predators of the masked palm civet including tigers and leopards along with reptiles such as large snakes and crocodiles.  

The female masked palm civet usually gives birth to up to 4 young after a gestation period that lasts for a couple of months. The babies are weaned by their mother until they are strong enough to fend for themselves. Masked palm civets can live for up to 20 years, although most rarely get to be this old.  

Today, the masked palm civet is under threat from deforestation and therefore drastic loss of much of its natural habitat. The main reason for such extensive deforestation in the area is either for logging or to clear the land to make way for palm oil plantations.
		 	      

	       Labradors are a well-balanced, friendly and versatile breed, adaptable to a wide range of functions as well as making very good pets. As a rule they are not excessively prone to being territorial, pining, insecure, aggressive, destructive, hypersensitive, or other difficult traits which sometimes manifest in a variety of breeds, and as the name suggests, they are excellent retrievers.  

 As an extension of this, they instinctively enjoy holding objects and even hands or arms in their mouths, which they can do with great gentleness (a Labrador can carry an egg in its mouth without breaking it). They are also known to have a very soft feel to the mouth, as a result of being bred to retrieve game such as waterfowl. They are prone to chewing objects (though they can be trained out of this behavior).   

The Labrador Retriever's coat repels water to some extent, thus facilitating the extensive use of the dog in waterfowl hunting.		 	      

	      Monkeys  are found naturally in the jungles and forests of the Southern Hemisphere. There are two ways to classify a monkey, the old world monkey (Asia and Africa) and the new world monkey (South America).  

There are around 260 known species of monkey worldwide ranging from chimpanzees to the tiny pygmy marmoset. The monkey can be anywhere from just a few centimetres tall, with some species of monkey growing to more than a metre tall.  

A monkey will mainly eat foliage, nuts, fruit, berries, insects, with the bigger species of monkey hunting small birds and mammals. Funnily enough monkeys never eat a banana as it is and instead they peel it first and throw away the peel.  

Although both the New World monkeys and Old World monkeys have forward facing eyes, the faces of Old World monkeys and New World monkeys look very different, though again, each group shares some features such as the types of noses, cheeks and rumps.  

It has been known for some organisations to train certain species of monkeys as monkey helpers to assist quadriplegics and other people with severe spinal cord injuries or mobility impairments. After being brought up in a human home as infants, the monkeys undergo extensive training before being placed with a quadriplegic. Around the house, the monkeys help out by doing tasks including microwaving food and opening drink bottles!  

When a monkey yawns it apparently means that either the monkey is tired or the monkey is angry about something. Howler monkeys are the loudest species of monkey with the howler monkeys howl being heard as far as 10 miles away.  

Monkeys use different noises, facial expressions and body movements to communicate with one another, with the monkey grinning being a sign of aggression. However, monkeys express affection and make peace with others by grooming each other.
		 	      

	      There are two species of the mountain gorilla, both of which are found in the highlands in eastern Africa. One of these is found in the volcanic mountains of Virunga in Central Africa, with the mountain gorilla having a habitat range across 4 national parks throughout the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. The other mountain gorilla species is found in Ugandas Bwindi Impenetrable Forest.  

The mountain gorilla is one of the largest primates in the world with the male mountain gorilla, known as a silverback, often growing to twice the size of a female mountain gorilla.  

The mountain gorilla has longer fur covering the mountain gorillas body when compared to other gorilla species, allowing the mountain gorilla to be able to withstand both hot and cold temperatures. The mountain gorilla has also taken to living mainly on the ground but is capable of hauling its enormous weight to around 6m high above the ground, when the mountain gorilla is looking to feed on fruits and berries that are inaccessible from the ground.  

The mountain gorilla is diurnal and spends most of its waking life eating. The mountain gorilla is a highly sociable mammal and lives in groups of between 5 and 30 individuals, which includes a mix of both male and female mountain gorillas. The alpha male mountain gorilla tends to rule for around 5 years, and as these mountain gorilla groups are non-territorial, the alpha male mountain gorilla will defend his group rather than a particular territory. Around 60% of mountain gorillas, both male and female, with leave the mountain gorilla group that they are born into and will either join another group of mountain gorillas but will more likely, start their own group.  

The mountain gorilla is said to be one of the closest living relatives to the human as the mountain gorillas hands are almost identical to the hands of a human being.  

The mountain gorilla is a critically endangered species as the mountain gorilla population has diminished rapidly through loss of habitat and illegal poaching. Scientists however has recently revealed that the mountain gorilla population in a nature reserve in the Democratic Republic of Congo has increased despite the war that is ongoing in that area of Africa.		 	      

	      Moths are found all around the world and are closely related to the colourful butterfly. However, moths are not generally so brightly coloured as the butterfly as the moth is a nocturnal animal and so blends in to the darker surroundings.  

There are thought to be up to 250,000 different species of moth throughout the world, and even more are believed to have not yet been discovered. Due to their nocturnal lifestyle, moths are known to be attracted to lights and are even believed to be able to fly in a straight line as the moths use the moon for navigation.  

In the same remarkable way as a butterfly, the moth undergoes a stage of metamorphosis during its limited life cycle. The moth caterpillar is different from the butterfly type, it is more broad and some contain a stinger.   

As with their butterfly cousins, moths are known to play a vital role in the pollination of plants as they flutter between them. Those plants that flower (bloom) during the night rely solely on moths and also bats to pollinate them. If the moth is distracted by an artificial light, it will in turn affect that reproduction of the plants that it helps to pollinate.  

Moths are herbivorous animals and therefore survive on a plant-based diet. Moths predominantly drink the nectar from the plants using their long straw-like tongue and moths are also known to do a similar thing with sugary fruits and berries. The moth caterpillars, also still generally herbivores, eat a mixture of plants and leaves and some species also eat insects.  

The moth has numerous natural predators throughout the world that include birds, bats, reptiles, amphibians, rodents and even other insects and larger spiders.  

All around the world, both moths and their caterpillars are known to be a pest, particularly to farmers as the caterpillars munch through their crop. Moths are renowned for the larvae becoming a pest by eating through fabrics, the moth seems to mainly go for the delicate silk. Moths are known to make holes in household fabrics like blinds and curtains.
		 	      

	      Komodo Dragon Classification and Evolution
The Komodo Dragon is a large species of lizard that is only found on a handful of islands in the Indonesian archipelago. Not known to the world until the First World War, the Komodo Dragon is actually a species of Monitor Lizard that has been evolving in island isolation for millions years, which has led to it becoming very large indeed. The Komodo Dragon is not only the largest lizard in the world, but it also one of the most aggressive and is so powerful that it is able to take prey many times it's own size. However, Komodo Dragons are also in severe danger in their natural environments as hunting and habitat loss, along with a shortage of prey, has led to population declines on the few islands where they are found in the Komodo National Park, meaning that they are now listed on the IUCN's Red List and therefore have some legal protection.   
Komodo Dragon Anatomy and Appearance
The Komodo Dragon is an enormous reptile that can grow up to three meters long and weigh 150kg. They are incredibly strong and powerful with long, thick bodies, short, muscular legs and an almighty tail that is used for both fighting and for propping the animal up when it is standing on it's hind legs. The Komodo Dragon has long and sharp, curved claws that are often used for digging and it's greyish brown skin is covered in small scales and folds around the neck. Komodo Dragons have relatively small heads compared to their large body size and wide, powerful jaws that conceal a mouth that is filled with deadly bacteria. Although the Komodo Dragon has good eyesight, the majority of it's surroundings are sensed to smell which the Komodo Dragon does with it's long and deeply forked tough. By flicking it's tongue out of it's mouth, the Komodo Dragon is able to "taste" scent particles in the air to locate both live and dead prey up to 8km away.  
Komodo Dragon Distribution and Habitat
Although the Komodo Dragon would have once been widespread across many Indonesian islands, they are today confined to just five which all lie in the Komodo National Park. The islands of Komodo, Rintja, Gillimontang, Padar and the western tip of Flores are the last remaining homes for these enormous animals that are most commonly found in open woodlands along with dry savannah and on scrubby hillsides, and can also be found inhabiting dried-up river beds. It is thought that Komodo Dragons evolved to be so big on these islands due to the presence of a number of large mammalian species that have since gone extinct. Today however, they are becoming more threatened in their natural environments with the loss of their habitats to deforestation for timber has pushed the last remaining populations into smaller and more isolated regions.   
Komodo Dragon Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Komodo Dragon is a solitary and powerful predator that roams a territory which is dependent on the individual's size, with the average adult covering a distance of around 2km every day. They are also known to be excellent swimmers, travelling from one island to another over a relatively long distance. Although they are solitary animals, a number of Komodo Dragons will often gather around a single kill with smaller individuals normally having to give way to the larger ones. In order to catch such large animals, Komodo Dragons can sit for hours hidden in the vegetation and are well camouflaged by their grey-brown skin as they sit waiting for a prey animal to pass by. The Komodo Dragon then ambushes it's victim with incredible speed and force. Although the majority of initial attacks are successful, if the animal somehow manages to escape then the bacteria transferred from the Komodo Dragon's mouth in the bite-would, causes the flesh to become septic and kills the prey within 24 hours.  
Komodo Dragon Reproduction and Life Cycles
Besides when feeding on a large carcass, Komodo Dragons can also be seen in the company of one another during the breeding season when, in September, nearby males fight one another by standing on their hind legs and propped up by their tails, try to win the right to breed with the local females. After mating, the female Komodo Dragon lays up to 25 leathery eggs in a hole that she digs into the soft sand. The young hatch after an incubation period that lasts for between 8 and 9 months and are boldly marked with cream bands (which they lose as they get older), and are completely independent from when they leave their shell. However, until they grow to a larger size, young Komodo Dragons will venture up into the trees where they will spend most of their time until they are big enough to look after themselves on the ground. Komodo Dragons tend to live for an average of 30 years in the wild.  
Komodo Dragon Diet and Prey
The Komodo Dragon is a carnivorous animal that only hunts and kills large animals in order to survive in it's natural surroundings. Adult Komodo Dragons are able to kill prey much larger than themselves as even if they are not successful at killing it on ambush, they will then follow it for miles until it eventually dies of the blood-poisoning caused by the deadly bacteria in the Komodo Dragon's mouth. Large mammals make up the bulk of the Komodo Dragon's diet including Pigs, Goats, Deer and even Horses and Water Buffalo (all of which have been introduced to the islands by people). Young Komodo Dragons however, prey on smaller animals in the trees such as Snakes, Lizards and Birds. The teeth of the Komodo Dragon are sharp and serrated but they mean that this animal cannot chew. Instead they tear bits off the carcass and throw it backwards into their mouths, able to swallow it whole aided by their flexible neck muscles.    
Komodo Dragon Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Komodo Dragon is the most dominant predator in it's environment, mature adults have no natural predators in their native habitats. The smaller and more vulnerable young however, seem to have adapted to spending their initial days in the trees to avoid being eaten by larger Komodo Dragons. Since the arrival of people on these islands though, things have changed dramatically with Humans having hunted the Komodo Dragons and encroaching on their native habitats with their growing settlements and forest clearance for both timber and agriculture. Komodo Dragons are also threatened by volcanic activity on these geologically active islands which can cause declines in their prey species, in turn affecting the local Komodo Dragon populations.  
Komodo Dragon Interesting Facts and Features
The Komodo Dragon is known to have fifty different types of toxic bacteria in their saliva that thrive on traces of flesh, causing bite-wounds to become quickly infected. Recent research however, indicates that the real reason for such a high success rate in poisoning it's prey could be down to the fact that the Komodo Dragon may have a venom gland in it's mouth. Although Komodo Dragons have thrived in this part of the Indonesian archipelago for millions of years, they were not known to the world until around a century ago when reports came in from a pilot that swam to Komodo Island after his plane went down. The immense size of the Komodo Dragon is thought to come from the fact that they would have once hunted large mammals that would have then existed in Indonesia, including a species of Pygmy Elephant which is thought to have now been extinct for thousands of years. This means that the main prey of the Komodo Dragon today, has all been introduced to the islands by Human settlers.   
Komodo Dragon Relationship with Humans
Since their discovery on the islands in the Komodo National Park around 100 years ago, Komodo Dragons have both fascinated and utterly terrified people as we learn more and more about them. Habitat loss on the islands has not only meant that Komodo Dragons are being pushed into increasingly isolated regions, but they are also being brought into closer contact with Human activity and are known to kill livestock on occasion. Despite their seemingly slow and docile nature, Komodo Dragons can run at speeds of up to 11mph in short bursts and are actually one of the world's known "man-eaters". People have not only been ambushed, bitten and then tracked by Komodo Dragons in the wild but they have also been known to attack Humans when they are kept in captive environments and either escape or are allowed to get too close.  
Komodo Dragon Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Komodo Dragon is listed by the IUCN as a species that is Vulnerable in it's natural environment and therefore potentially faces extinction in the near future. Although once widespread on numerous Indonesian islands that they are now confined to just a few with between 3,000 and 5,000 individuals thought to be left roaming the rich, volcanic forests. Increasing interest in them from the tourist industry though has meant that local people have more reason to try and protect them and the handful of habitats where they still survive.
		 	      

	      The king penguin is the second largest species of penguin in the world, with adult king penguins growing to nearly a metre in height. There are two recognised sub-species of the king penguin found throughout the sub-Antarctic, with more than 2 million breeding pairs thought to be dotted across the rocky islands (a number which appears to be increasing).  

The king penguin is found inhabiting the rocky islands in parts of the Antarctic Ocean, with the geographical location being one of the main differences between the two king penguin sub-species. King Penguins breed on the sub-Antarctic islands, at the northern reaches of Antarctica, as well as around the Falkland Islands, and other temperate islands of the region.  

The king penguin is one of the most elegant of all penguin species as it's long and slender body helps the king penguin to glide through the water with great ease. The bright-yellow markings on the head and neck of the king penguin are characteristic of this penguin species.   

King penguins have adapted well to the extreme living conditions of the Antarctic and, to keep warm, the king  penguin has four layers of feathering. King Penguins have 70 feathers per every square inch. The outer layer of feathers are oiled and waterproof, and the inner three layers are down feathers, which act as very effective insulation as the bitter cold.  

The king penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the king penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish.  

Due to the fact that they inhabit quite uncompromising regions, king penguins have no natural land-based predators. However, larger marine animals that also inhabit the freezing waters of the Antarctic Ocean will prey on these water-based birds, with leopard seals, sharks, humans and killer whales being the main predators of the king penguin.  

On average, the king penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female king penguin lays two eggs which are incubated by both parents for about two months, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The king penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are about a year old.  

Today, the king penguin populations in the sub-Antarctic Oceans appear to be thriving and better still increasing in numbers with more than two million breeding pairs of king penguins found around the freezing waters.
		 	      

	      The kingfisher is a small to medium sized colourful bird generally found close to water.There are nearly 100 different species of the kingfisher bird found around the world.  

Kingfishers live both in wetlands and woodlands worldwide, feeding mainly on fish but also insects, frogs and crayfish with those kingfisher species that live in the woodlands occasionally eating reptiles, birds and even small mammals.  

There are three main types of kingfisher around the globe which are the river kingfishers, the tree kingfishers and the water kingfishers all of which have large heads, long sharp pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.  

The smallest species of kingfisher is the African Dwarf Kingfisher, which gets to an average of 10.4 g in weight and just 10 cm (4 inches) in length. The largest kingfisher species is the Giant Kingfisher, which gets to an average of 355 g (13.5 oz) and grows to 45 cm (18 inches). However, the familiar Australian kingfisher known as the Laughing Kookaburra may be the heaviest known kingfisher species, since large adult Australian kingfishers exceeding 450 g in weight are quite common.  

Kingfishers nest in tree hollows and holes dug into the ground, which tend to be in river banks or at the sides of lakes. Kingfishers dig small tunnels with their nest at the end, which can range in length depending on the species. The giant kingfisher is known to dig tunnels that are over 8 meters long! Female kingfishers lay up to 10 eggs (although normally less), and both the male and the female kingfishers help to incubate the eggs, which hatch in between 3 and 4 weeks.  

Kingfishers are well known for their brightly coloured feathers which range in colour from black to red to green. Some species of kingfisher have tufts of feathers on their heads which stick upwards, although many species of kingfishers have smooth, flat feathers covering their bodies.  

Due to their generally small size, kingfishers have a number of predators wherever they exist around the world. The main predators of the kingfisher are foxes, raccoons, cats and snakes, but kingfishers are also preyed upon by other small mammals and large birds. The eggs of the kingfisher are also preyed upon by many of the kingfisher's predators.  

Many species of kingfisher are considered to be threatened species as their numbers have been declining mainly due to habitat loss. These threatened species of kingfisher tend to be the kingfisher species that inhabit woodland and forests as their habitat is being destroyed due to deforestation which occurs in many areas around the world.		 	      

	      There are two primary species of elephant:
  
 Asian Elephant 
 African Elephant 
There are numerous subspecies of the Asian elephant, these are the Indian Elephant, Sri Lankan Elephant, Sumatran, Borneo Elephant.  African elephants are larger than Asian elephants and have two subspecies which are the African Bush Elephant and African Forest Elephant.   

The elephant is the only known mammal that, despite having knee joints, cannot jump! This is thought to be primarily due to the elephants sheer size but also because of the way that the elephants legs are built, they are short and stocky to support the elephants phenomenal weight.  

Elephants are herbivores that spend around 22 hours eating! The elephant searches for green leaves in the tree tops but it is not uncommon for the elephant to tear down the tree to  get the leaves.  

One old elephant related myth is that elephants are afraid of mice. There are a number of theories from where this arose such as the size difference (elephants are one of the biggest land animals, mice are one of the smallest), the fear from the elephant that a mouse could crawl into the elephants trunk and nest, and the fact that mice have been known to crawl over elephants while they are sleeping so they can get to any left over food, are also viable possibilities. Whether or not elephants are actually scared of mice is unknown, however tests show that elephants are definitely not as comfortable with mice around as you might expect.  

 Elephant Foot Facts 

The foot of an elephant has five toes that are buried in the flesh of their feet, with not all the toes of an elephant having toenails.
The foot of an elephant is formed in such a way that when elephants walk, they are effectively walking on tip toe.
The underneath of elephants feet is made up of tough and fatty tissue that acts a shock absorber so that elephants can walk more quietly.
The elephant uses its enormous feet in which to collect small amounts of water and to dig up roots out of the tought ground.
The foot of an elephant is about half the width of its shoulder, so scientists are able to tell the size of the elephant by looking at the footprint.

  
 Elephant Teeth Facts 

Elephants have 26 teeth in total which includes 24 molars in the mouth of the elephant and the elephants tusks which are actually two incisors.
The molars in the mouth of the elephant replace themselves six times during their lives with the new molars being larger than the old ones.
The replacing molars in the mouth of the elephant push the old molars forward to let the new molars grow at the back of the elephants mouth.
The elephants uses its tusks for digging, ripping bark from trees and foraging, as their tusks are essentially no different from normal teeth.
The teeth of the elephant are made from ivory, a strong compound that humans seem to have lust for but it has meant that countless elephants have been killed for their teeth alone.
 		 	      

	      The eastern lowland gorilla is one of two sub-species of eastern gorilla found roaming in the jungles on the African continent (the other being the mountain gorilla). The eastern lowland gorilla is more common than the mountain gorilla and is also one of the largest primates in the world.  

The eastern lowland gorilla is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forests of parts of eastern and central Africa, along with lowland swamps and secondary forests. The eastern lowland gorilla is found in the trees throughout the countries of Rwanda, Uganda and parts of the eastern Congo.  

There are considered to be two separate sub-species of eastern gorilla which are the eastern lowland gorilla and the mountain gorilla. Although only slightly different in appearance, the two eastern gorilla species differ in their numbers with the mountain gorilla being rarer in the wild today than the eastern lowland gorilla.  

The eastern lowland gorilla is one of the great apes, a group that includes orang-utans, gorillas, humans and chimpanzees. As with the other great apes, the eastern lowland gorilla has a number of features which makes living in the jungle a bit easier, including having opposable thumbs which come in handy when the eastern lowland gorilla is peeling fruit.  

The eastern lowland gorilla is an omnivorous animal, but the majority of it's diet is made up of eating fruit which the eastern lowland gorilla is known to travel vast distances through the forests to find. The eastern lowland gorilla also eats leaves, nuts and berries, along with insects and occasionally small animals such as lizards and rodents. The eastern lowland gorilla has also been observed using basic tools in the wild in order to more effectively gather food.  

Due to it's large size, the eastern lowland gorilla has few real predators in it's native African forests, with large cats such as leopards and the odd crocodile being the only real natural threat to the eastern lowland gorilla. The biggest threat to the eastern lowland gorilla is habitat loss caused by deforestation and also being hunted by humans. Parts of the eastern lowland gorilla's territory has also been taken over by civil unrest in recent years, which, along with poaching, has had a truly devastating affect on wild populations.  

The eastern lowland gorilla tends to live in groups which are led and protected by the alpha male. The alpha male eastern lowland gorilla also mates with the females in his group, producing generally single offspring, known as babies. The eastern lowland gorilla babies remain with their mother until they are a few years old and become independent.  

Today, mainly due to habitat loss and illegal poaching, the eastern lowland gorilla is considered to be a species that is in danger of becoming extinct in the wild forever. There are estimated to be around 5,000 eastern lowland gorillas, and an even fewer 700 mountain gorilla individuals left in the wild.
		 	      

	      The Bolognese is a small breed of dog of the Bichon type, originating in Italy. The name refers to the northern Italian city of Bologna.  

Generally somewhat less active than the Bichon Frise, the Bolognese is nevertheless a playful and friendly breed, which will form a close bond with its owner.  

 It is also intelligent, easy to train, and eager to please, making it an ideal companion dog and family pet, although it may initially be somewhat reserved with strangers. They are good with children. Its life expectancy is 12-14 years.  

The Bolognese dog has a distinctive single coat (i.e. no undercoat) falls in loose open ringlets all over the body, with shorter hair on the face. The hair's texture is woolly, as opposed to silky, and is never trimmed or clipped. The hair sheds very little, but requires regular combing to prevent matting.  

Frequent brushing and bathing, required to keep the Bolognese looking its best, reduces the amount of loose fur in the environment.		 	      

	      King Crabs are known for their sheer size but only a couple of species get really big. King crabs are mainly found in the Southern Hemisphere where the waters are warmer but the Alaskan king crab is the obvious exception to this as the waters there are near freezing.   

Red king crabs can have a leg span of up to 1.8m, blue king crabs often weigh over 8kg! King crabs hunt small fish and plankton in the oceans and are often found close to coral reefs or rocky areas where there are plenty of places for the king crab to hide.  

The king crab is generally believed to come from the ancestors of hermit crabs, as with many species of crab today. King crabs are hunted all year round by fisherman and the king crab is seen to be delicacy in many parts of the world.  

There are thought to be around 40 different species of king crab today, nearly all of which are hunted for food by humans due to their large size and the taste of their flesh. The most popular king crab for a human catch, is the red king crab as the red king crab is one of the largest species and one of the most readily available species of king crab in the ocean.		 	      

	      The zebra shark is a medium-sized species of shark, that is found in the warmer coastal waters and around tropical coral reefs. Zebra sharks are most commonly found in the Indian and South Pacific oceans.  

Zebra sharks can grow to nearly 3 meters in length and can get to be 30 years old in the wild. Zebra sharks that are kept in captivity generally do not exceed 15 years of age. Zebra sharks can be identified by the yellow spots that are present on the back of the zebra shark.  

Zebra sharks have a long, flattened body which helps them to remain unnoticed on the seabed. The zebra shark also has a long tail which allows it to be more agile in the water. Zebra sharks move their tails from side to side when they swim, in an eel-like manner.  

Zebra sharks are omnivorous animals but tend to have a more meat-based diet. Zebra sharks feed on small fish, crabs, shrimp, snails and other small invertebrates along with squid and sea snakes which they forage for in the coral reefs.  

Due to their relatively large size, zebra sharks have few natural predators as they are fairly dominant predators in their environment. Larger species of shark such as tiger sharks and bull sharks are the main predators of the zebra shark, along with humans who hunt them for their meat and fins.  

The female zebra shark lays an average of ten large eggs which hatch after an incubation period of around 5 months. The baby zebra sharks are nearly half a meter long when they first hatch.		 	      

	      The yellow-eyed penguin is one of the few penguin species found north of the Antarctic Ocean, and as it's name suggests, this species of penguin is easily idenitfied by it's yellow coloured eyes and bright yellow band that runs from it's eyes round the back of the yellow-eyed penguin's head.  

The yellow-eyed penguin is found off the coast of the south island of New Zealand where this species gathers in colonies along the beaches and boulder fields. The yellow-eyed penguin is also found on a few of the islands of the main island including Stewart, Auckland and the Campbell Islands.  

The yellow-eyed penguin generally searches for food up 10 miles offshore, and travels (on average) around 15 miles away from the colonies nesting site. The yellow-eyed penguin leaves the colony at dawn and returns the same evening during chick rearing, although may spend 2â��3 days at sea at other times.  

The yellow-eyed penguin is one of the larger species of penguin with adult individuals reaching 75cm in height, with the males generally being slightly larger than the female yellow-eyed penguins. The yellow-eyed penguin was thought to have been closely related to the tiny little penguin found in a similar area, although recent research suggests that the two are actually fairly genetically different.   

The yellow-eyed penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the yellow-eyed penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish.  

The yellow-eyed penguin is usually found nesting in the forests and scrub that line the New Zealand coast and although historically undisturbed, the yellow-eyed penguin now has a number of land-dwelling predators including cats, dogs and foxes along with rats and weasels that hunt their eggs.   

On average, the yellow-eyed penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female yellow-eyed penguin lays two eggs in her nest in the forest which are incubated by both parents for up to a couple of months, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The yellow-eyed penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are nearly a year old.  

Today, the yellow-eyed penguin listed as an endangered animal with an estimated wild population of less than 4,000 individuals. It is now the rarest penguin in the world due to deforestation and the introduction of mammalian predators.
		 	      

	      The kudu is a sub-species of antelope that is found inhabiting mixed shrub woodland, and savanna plains in eastern and southern Africa. The kudu relies heavily on close, dense thickets in which the kudu can escape to and hide when it feels threatened.  

There are two species of kudu in Africa which are the Lesser kudu and the Greater kudu. Both kudu species are closely related and look very similar in appearance but there are a few distinctive ways that the lesser kudu and the greater kudu can be distinguished from one another. The lesser kudu has ten white stripes which run vertically down the lesser kudu's body where the greater kudu can have anyway between 4 and 12 stripes. The greater kudu is also generally bigger than the lesser kudu  

Kudus are herbivorous animals and therefore have a completely vegetarian diet. Kudus forage in woodland and around thickets of shrubs nibbling on leaves from the trees and bushes. Kudus also eat other varieties of plant life such as herbs, flowers, berries and fallen fruits.  

Kudus are prey to a number of predators such as lions, leopards, cheetahs, wild dogs and the occasional large python that will hunt the smaller and more vulnerable kudu young. Kudu are able to run very fast but often have a hard time outrunning predators so the kudu rely on their agile ability to leap into forest and woodland where large carnivorous predators find it harder to chase them. The kudu will then often hide in woodland until the predator have eventually given up and left.  

Kudus live in small herds of up to 24 kudu individuals. The kudu herds mainly consist of female kudus and their calves as male kudus tend to solitary and only come together with other kudus when it is time to mate. It has been known that groups of up to 8 male kudus will form a herd but this is very rare.  

The kudu mating season occurs at the end of the rainy season. The kudu gestation period is around 8 months after which time the female kudu will normally give birth to just one baby kudu. The baby kudus tend to be born around February and March when the grass is at it's highest and there is plenty of food to help the baby kudu calves to grow.  

Kudus have both benefited and suffered from contact with humans. Humans find the kudu and easy target for hunting due to the fact that kudus tend to stop and look around after they have run away. Some local tribes people believe the kudu to be a sacred animal and therefore protect the kudu rather than killing it. Human settlements have also meant that the kudu habitat as changed and the kudu have had to move to other areas. This has actually done the kudu population the world of good as the kudu have been pushed into areas where there is a better source of water and therefore food. 		 	      

	      The Egyptian Mau is an ancient breed of Egyptian cat thought to be at least 3,000 years old! The Egyptian Mau is a medium-sized, short-haired cat and the Egyptian Mau is one of the only cats to be naturally spotted.  

The Egyptian Mau is the fastest of all the domestic cats and has been known to reach speeds of 30 mph, making the Egyptian Mau a keen predator, probably due to the fact that the Egyptian Mau has longer back legs than most cats.  

A pure-bred Egyptian Mau is fairly rare to find today as most has adopted attributes of other species. The Egyptian Mau is a descendant of the African wild cats and is well known for its intelligence.  

The Egyptian Mau is a slender yet muscular breed of domestic cat making the Egyptian Mau both elegant and powerful at the same time. This, along with the well-known chattiness of the Egyptian Mau, makes them popular pets today.  

As the Egyptian Mau is the only naturally spotted breed of domestic cat, the Egyptian Mau is often bred with other domestic cats in order to produce slightly spotted kittens.		 	      

	      The zebu is a species of cattle that is native to the jungles of South Asia and the Zebu is the only cattle species that can easily adapt to life in the hot tropics. The zebu is also known as the humped cattle as the zebu has a very distinctive hump on its upper back, located behind the head and neck of the zebu.  

Today the zebu can also be found in Africa, as the zebu was transported there from Asia many years ago. There are thought to be around 75 different species of zebu, with roughly half the zebu species found in Africa and the other half of the zebu species found in South Asia. The zebu has also been taken to South America from Africa, where zebu populations are continuously growing.  

The zebu is one of the smallest species of cattle in the world with adult zebus reaching a height of just over a meter. The zebu is also about half the weight of a typical cow as the zebu is considered to have less meat. The small size of the zebu is thought to be the reason why the zebu is able to thrive in tropical climates, where other species of cattle do not fair so well.  

The zebu is a distinctive breed of cattle and besides the hump found on the shoulders of the zebu, the zebu also has a large flap of skin below its lower jaw, known as a dewlap, and the zebu also has long drooping ears. The hump-less cattle found throughout Africa today are considered to be a subspecies of the zebu that have adapted to life without their characteristic hump. Nevertheless, these hump free cattle are able to survive without complaint in their subtropical environment.  

Due to the manageable size of the zebu, and the ability of the zebu to cope with the tropicals climates, the zebu has been domesticated in both its Native home in Southern Asia and in Africa as the zebu is predominantly used for lighter agricultural work. The zebu is also farmed for meat in some areas and the zebu is considered to be holy in India where the zebu is thought to have originated from.  

The zebu is thought to have both parasite and disease resistant properties which is another reason why the zebu are thought to thrive so successfully in their native tropical environments. The zebu has also been interbred with the native cattle of both Africa and Brazil, where the zebu is most common outside of Asia, and many farmers consider the presence of a hump and droopy ears to be a sign that their cattle is purely bred.  

There are thought to be nearly 4 million zebu in farms around the world today, with the highest number of these being found in India, Brazil and the United States. The wild zebu can still be found in small herds in Southern Asia but the wild zebu populations are not nearly as high, mainly because of habitat loss due to deforestation.		 	      

	      Although a toy breed, the Yorkie still retains much of its terrier ancestry in terms of personality. Individual dogs will differ, but they are generally intelligent, independent and courageous. Yorkshire Terriers are quick to determine where they fit in a household's pack. Their behavior towards outsiders will vary, they often will be inclined to bark at strangers, but some Yorkies are outgoing and friendly towards new people while others are withdrawn and aloof.   

The differences in behavior in this regard are largely based on how the owner trains or conditions (and socializes) the Yorkie. A few individual Yorkshire Terriers may be timid or nervous, rather than bold, but the vast majority do seem to meet the breed standard for a confident, vigorous and self-important personality.  

 The Yorkshire Terrier seems oblivious of its small size. It is ever eager for adventure. This little dog is highly energetic, brave, loyal, and clever, with above average intelligence. Affectionate with its master, it can become suspicious of strangers and aggressive to strange dogs and small animals, if not properly socialized.		 	      

	      Echidnas are known better as spiny anteaters, although they are not related to them, besides that fact that both anteaters and echidnas eat ants and termites. The echidna is found in parts of New Guinea and Australia.  

The echidna has a long tongue around 18cm long that can whip in and out of its mouth at incredible speeds. This helps the echidna to forage for ants an termites.  

The echidna was named after a monster in Greek mythology! The echidna can dig incredibly well due to its long claws, meaning that echidna are able to escape danger by digging straight down.  

The echidna is a small mammal and the echidna has a long snout that acts as both the mouth and nose of the echidna. The echidna has no teeth and the echidna feeds by tearing soft logs apart and then using its long, sticky tongue to feed on the ants and termites that inhabit the log.  

The echidna is a very special mammal and, along with the platypus, the echidna is the only other egg-laying mammal in the world. The echidna lays eggs that have a soft shell and are kept in the pouch of the female echidna until the eggs hatch in a couple of weeks. The young echidna remains in the pouch of the female echidna for around 50 weeks, when the baby echidna has grown spikes. The mother echidna then transfers the young echidna to a nursery burrow and returns every few days to feed the baby until it is around seven months old.		 	      

	      The yak is a herd animal found in the mountainous regions of central Asia. The yak tend to gather in herds from 10 yaks to 100 yaks, most of which are female. There are only a few male yaks per herd.  

Although there is a large domestic population of yak, there are only a few wild yak remaining . The yak is still used  in many parts of central Asia, for pulling heavy farm machines and transporting large loads through the mountain passes.  

The average male yak can  grow to about 2meters tall, with the female yak being about 1/3 the size of the male yak. All yak have very long hair to keep them warm.  

The yak belongs to the same cow family as the Asian water buffalo, the African buffalo and the American bison. However, the yak is slightly more like the American bison in appearance as both the yak and the bison have long hair in order to withstand the colder climates, the bison of the North American winters and the yak of the mid-Asian mountains.  

The yak breeds in the warmer months of September and after a gestation period of nine months the female yak gives birth to a single yak calf. A female yak will occasionally give birth to twins but it is very rare. Some female yak give birth to a calf almost every year but it depends on the environment in which the yak lives and the yak individual. Yak babies are completely independent by the time that they are a year old and they are fully grown when they are between 7 and 8 years old. The average lifespan of a yak is about 20 years in the wild and slightly longer when in captivity.  

Like other species of cow, the yak is a herbivore and spends a great deal of time on grassy plains in the mountains grazing on grasses, herbs and wild flowers. In a similar way to other cow species the yak has more than one stomach which the yak uses to successfully get all of the nutrients out of the plants that it eats.  

The yak has firm, dense horns which the yak uses to break through snow in order to get the plants that are buried beneath it and the yak will also use it's horns in defence. 

They have long shaggy hairthat covers their bodies that keep them warm and dry.		 	      

	      Zonkey Classification and Evolution
The Zonkey is a hybrid animal that is created by cross-breeding two different species of animal that belong to the same genetic group. Technically though, an individual is only classed as a Zonkey if it is sired from a male Zebra and female Donkey, as one that has a male Donkey and female Zebra parents is known as a Zedonk. Like many other animal hybrids around the world including the Mule and the Liger however, the Zonkey is a sterile creature meaning that it cannot produce offspring of it's own. Unlike the Liger though, it is actually quite possible for Zonkeys to live in the wild as Zebras and Donkeys are naturally found in close proximity to one another in parts of Africa. Although they are very rare, cases of wild Zonkeys have been reported but the majority of them today are found in zoos around the world and are bred as tourist attractions.  
Zonkey Anatomy and Appearance
The Zebra and the Donkey are closely related to one another and both belonging to the Horse family means these two species share a number of similar characteristics including their size. The Zonkey tends to be of a similar size to these animals but takes on a more definitive Donkey-like appearance, with the obvious exception of inheriting the uniquely-striped pattern on their fur from their Zebra parent. Zonkeys tend to be either tan, brown or grey in colour with a lighter underside, and it is on the lighter parts of their body like their legs and belly where the Zonkey's darker stripes are most prominent (they are much harder to see on the darker parts). The Zonkey also has a black mane which extends along the ridge of their back to the tip if their black tail, and a large head and ears which makes the Zonkey look much more like a Donkey than a Zebra.  
Zonkey Distribution and Habitat
Out of the three species of Zebra that are found living on the African continent, two are found in Eastern Africa whilst the other is found in more southern regions. Generally preferring to inhabit savannas and open woodlands throughout their historical range, Zebras are often found in enormous herds particularly on the Serengeti plains where they migrate thousands of miles following the rains that bring new grass. Some are also found in close proximity to Human settlements where they are known to have to compete with domestic livestock, such as Donkeys, for food. It is in these areas where Zonkeys are most likely to be produced naturally in the wild as it gives the two separate species the opportunity to mate. Sadly however, the world's Zonkeys tend to be found in zoos and animal institutions where they are generally bred deliberately.  
Zonkey Behaviour and Lifestyle
Despite being very similar animals both in appearance and behaviour, one of the biggest differences between the two is that unlike Donkeys which have been domesticated by Humans for thousands of years, Zebras remain to be wild animals and therefore have a naturally more aggressive nature. Along with their stripes, the other thing that Zonkeys seem to inherit from their Zebra parent is their wild streak as they too are known to be fairly aggressive towards Humans and sometimes other animals. One of the Zonkey's most favourable characteristics is their sheer power which is made up of the stamina of the Donkey mixed with the speed and strength of the Zebra, which has led to them being used as work animals mainly to pull heavy loads.  
Zonkey Reproduction and Life Cycles
For a Zonkey to be produced, a male Zebra must have mated with a female Donkey (if the parents are the other way round the offspring is known as a Zedonk). After a gestation period that can last for more than a year, the female Donkey gives birth to a single Zonkey foal that, like Zebra and Donkey foals is able to stand up just minutes after birth. The Zonkey foal would generally remain with it's mother until it was between five and six months old when it would become independent and join another herd. This kind of behaviour however, actually happens slightly later with Zebra foals as they can take up to four years to leave the herd. Like numerous other hybrid animals, the Zonkey itself cannot produce offspring of it's own, as the cross-breeding of two different species often results in their young being sterile and unable to continue a population.  
Zonkey Diet and Prey
Like Donkeys, Zebras, Horses and their other relatives, Zonkeys are herbivorous animals meaning that they survive on a diet that is solely comprised of plant matter. The majority of their food is made up of grasses and herbs that grow on the ground and like all equines, the Zonkey has flat, broad teeth which are the perfect tools for grinding down the fibrous grass. Along with grazing, Zonkeys also like to browse for other types of food including fruits and berries which are found growing more commonly in less arid areas. Due to the fact that Zonkeys are naturally found in the African wilderness there is always competition for both food and water from other animals inhabiting the same area and so they are always on the move in search of greener pastures.  
Zonkey Predators and Threats
Despite their large size and the fact that they are long-living animals, both Zebras and Donkeys (and therefore Zonkeys) are important prey to numerous carnivores throughout their natural range. Lions and Hyenas are their most common predators, along with African Hunting Dogs and large felines like Leopards and Cheetahs. Even though they remain a stable food source for these large predators, they are often hard to catch and Zebras particularly are known to protect wounded individuals to prevent them from being hurt any more. Although rarer today, one of the biggest threats to both Zebras and Donkeys in Africa has been the fact that they have been subjected to hunting for both their meat and their skins. They are also being pushed into more isolated regions of the natural habitats meaning a decrease in the likelihood of wild Zonkeys.  
Zonkey Interesting Facts and Features
Although we often only think of Donkeys as being domesticated animals, wild herds of Donkeys can still be found living on the continent and in herds up to 100 strong in northern Africa, but this is an area that is not inhabited by Zebras and so the chances of a Zonkey occurring under these conditions would be extremely rare. Zonkeys have been mentioned by naturalists for centuries including Darwin who mentioned the possibility of a fertile female Zonkey that was being exhibited at the London Zoo. The Zonkey is thought to be a popular work animal as they have an apparent resistance to certain pests and diseases, something which is thought to have been inherited from their Zebra father.   
Zonkey Relationship with Humans
Originally bred by Humans to pull heavy loads and thought to have appeared in zoos in the 19th century, the Zonkey first became really famous when one was accidentally sired in Colchester Zoo in the 1970s, and they have since continued to exhibit Zonkeys as a popular tourist attraction. Along with now being bred in zoos around the world, Zonkeys are also bred for riding and as work animals involved in transport and pulling heavy loads due to their strength and stamina. In the wild in Africa however, Zebras have come under particular threat from people due both hunting and loss of habitat for growing Human settlements or land clearance for agriculture.    
Zonkey Conservation Status and Life Today
Due to the fact that the Zonkey is a cross-bred animal and that it cannot continue a population, it is not listed by the IUCN. The three Zebra species though are all listed with the Plains Zebra as Least Concern, the Mountain Zebra as Vulnerable and the Grevy's Zebra as Endangered. This means that the chances of Zonkeys occurring in the wild are becoming slimmer and slimmer, with the majority of them today found in zoos and used as work animals. 
		 	      

	      The Tasmanian devil is a carnivorous marsupial and the Tasmanian devil is therefore distantly related to kangaroos and wombats. Although the Tasmanian devil's closest relative is a kangaroo, the Tasmanian devil has the appearance of a wild dog  The Tasmanian devil is only found on the Australian island state of Tasmania.  

The Tasmanian devil is characterized by their black fur and the offensive odour the Tasmanian devil secretes when stressed. The Tasmanian devil is also known to making a horrible, loud screeching sound when the Tasmanian devil is distressed or feels threatened.  

Since the late 1990s, a nasty facial mutation disease has caused the Tasmanian devil population to decline, meaning that the Tasmanian devil is now an endangered species. The facial mutation disease is thought to be a type of cancer and ends in fatality about a year after it is contracted.  

The Tasmanian devil is very fierce, but that does not mean we shouldn't try to save them. If people shoot them because they attack something, that is like killing a friend, there will soon be no more.  

The Tasmanian devil known to display odd and slightly psychotic behaviour. When the Tasmanian devil feels threatened by a predator, is competing for mate or even a male, the Tasmanian devil displays a series of behaviours including lunging, teeth-baring and growling. The Tasmanian devil turns to rage so quickly that 
European settlers first named it the devil.  

Tasmanian devils are highly carnivorous and survive on snakes, birds, fish, insects and road kill. When a carcass is found, Tasmanian devils are known to be one of the loudest animals when it comes to fighting for a meal.  

Tasmanian devils are solitary animals and are nocturnal. The Tasmanian devil rests in burrows, caves and hollow logs during the day and then come out at night to find food. Tasmanian devils use their long whiskers and fantastic sense of smell to find prey whilst avoiding troublesome predators.  

Female Tasmanian devils give birth after about three weeks of pregnancy to 20 or 30 very tiny young. These tiny Tasmanian devil babies crawl up their mother's fur and into her pouch where they are kept safe as well as fed. However, only a few of the Tasmanian devil babies will survive as the mother cannot feed them all at once. The baby Tasmanian devils leave the safety of their mother's pouch when they are about 4 months old and are big enough and strong enough to make it on their own when they are 8 months old.		 	      

	      The heron is a large species of bird that inhabits wetlands and areas that are close to lakes, ponds and rivers. Some species of heron are also known as egrets and bitterns instead of being called herons.  

There are 64 different species of heron found inhabiting the wetlands around the world. Herons are commonly found in Europe and North America along with the more temperate regions of Africa, Asia and Australia. Herons are commonly confused with the stalk which is another large species of bird, however the fact that herons fly with their necks in rather than outstretched is on the main differences between herons and stalks.  

The great blue heron found inhabiting parts of North America and as far west as the Galapagos Islands is the largest species of heron in the world and can measure nearly a meter in height. The smallest species of heron in the world is the green heron measuring less than 50 cm tall. The green heron is most commonly found in North America and Central America, and occasionally in Hawaii.  

All 64 different species of heron are very similar in body shape but not in size and colour. All herons have long pointed beaks which helps them to grab fish out of the water, along with long necks and thin, long legs both of which are useful to the heron as it lives it's waterside lifestyle. Herons also have enormous wings that can be nearly double the size of the heron's body.  

The heron is a carnivorous species of bird, with the heron primarily feeding on fish. Herons also prey on a number of other small animals including  amphibians, molluscs, snakes, insects and even small mammals and birds. The heron uses it's long pointed beak to snatch it's prey out of the water or from the ground.  

Due to their large size, herons have few natural predators in their wetland environment. Foxes, raccoons, minks and weasels are the herons most common predators as they predominately prey on the eggs of the heron and their young rather than the adult heron itself.  

Some species of heron are known to breed in colonies but most heron species breed on their own usually in woodland close to water. Herons build their nests in tall trees so that the eggs are safe from the predators on the ground. The nest of the heron is build out try leaves and twigs by both the male heron and the female heron. The female heron lays an average of 4 eggs per clutch which hatch after an incubation period of around 1 month. Both the male heron and the female heron help to incubate their eggs and feed the tiny heron chicks. Herons live for up to 25 years.  

Herons are not considered to be threatened or endangered animals although concerns have been raised about the health-risks to the world's heron populations. Pollution is a major factor in the decline of many animal populations around the world, and pollution in the water can have a devastating effect on the fish which the heron eat.		 	      

	      X-Ray Tetra Classification and Evolution
The X-Ray Tetra is a small species of schooling Fish that is naturally found in the Amazon River's coastal waters in South America. The X-Ray Tetra is also known as the Golden Pristella Tetra and the Water Goldfinch due to the faint golden colouration of their translucent skin. They were first described by Ulrey in 1894 and have since become one of the most popular freshwater Fish kept in artificial aquariums today. Although the X-Ray Tetra is the only known species in it's genus, it is closely related to other small and colourful South American Fish, including the nearly 100 other Tetra species.   
X-Ray Tetra Anatomy and Appearance
The most distinctive feature of the X-Ray Tetra is the translucent layer of skin that covers it's small body, allowing the Fish's backbone to be clearly seen. The scales of the X-Ray Tetra are a silvery-yellowish colour that is very faint, looking almost golden in some lights. The X-Ray Tetra also has a re-tipped tail and strikingly striped dorsal and anal fins that are yellow, black and white in colour. This is a relatively small species of Fish that actually has a bony internal structure known as the Weberian apparatus, which is used in picking up sound waves, and contributes to their acute sense of hearing (this bony structure is also found in many of their relatives).  Females are generally slightly larger and rounder than the more slender males, although the two are very similar in appearance.  
X-Ray Tetra Distribution and Habitat
The X-Ray Tetra is found in the Amazonian coastal waters of Brazil, Guiana, Guyana, and Venezuela in South America. They differ greatly from other Tetra species as they are able to tolerate the harder brackish water closer to the coast, as well as their usual freshwater environments. They inhabit clear-water streams and tributaries during the dry season, and with the coming of the rains, the X-Ray Tetra then move into the flooded marshlands where the water is softer and more acidic. It is during the wet season that the X-Ray Tetra breed as they have better water conditions and a higher abundance of food.  
X-Ray Tetra Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like many other small, colourful Fish, the X-Ray Tetra is a schooling species of Fish inhabiting the region between the bottom and middle of the water as a group. They are incredibly peaceful and are often tolerant of the other species that they share their habitats with. The X-Ray Tetra is one of the most adaptable species of Tetra as it is able to inhabit both fresh and brackish water happily, in both acidic and alkaline conditions. It is widely observed that those X-Ray Tetra that are kept in tanks, can change quickly from being peaceful to becoming skittish in the presence of larger, predatory Fish, with the same behaviour known to be displayed if the school size is not big enough.  
X-Ray Tetra Reproduction and Life Cycles
During the rainy season. the X-Ray Tetra return to the flood-lands to spawn. Unlike many similar Fish who give birth to live young, the female X-Ray Tetra lays between 300 - 400 eggs by scattering them amongst the vegetation (when she is ready to spawn, the see-through skin means that her eggs can also be easily seen). X-Ray Tetra fry begin to hatch as early as 24 hours later, and become free swimming within a few days. Once able to swim, the small and dull white young, are able to find better food sources and soon develop their characteristic adult markings. X-Ray Tetra usually live for three or four years in the wild but can get to older ages in captivity.   
X-Ray Tetra Diet and Prey
Like many other small species of Fish that live in the Amazon River, the X-Ray Tetra is an omnivorous animal whose diet is made up of both animals and plants. X-Ray Tetra primarily hunt Worms, Insects and small Crustaceans that live close to the river bed and their fry tend to feed on Insect larvae. Although they are also known to supplement their diet with aquatic plants, they are predominantly micro-predators that feed on small invertebrates. In artificial communities, X-Ray Tetra need a variety of food sources including Brine Shrimp and Bloodworm alongside the standard flakes and pellets to ensure that they have a fully nutritious diet.  
X-Ray Tetra Predators and Threats
The small size of the X-Ray Tetra means that they should not be kept in the same aquarium as larger, predatory Fish, but will co-inhabit the tank peacefully with other small, schooling Fish that pose them no threat. In the wild, X-Ray Tetra are preyed upon by a number of aquatic predators including larger Fish and Frogs, and are also threatened by Birds and Snakes if they are closer to the water's surface. Populations are thought to be the most under threat from the rising levels of pollution in the water and habitat loss in general.  
X-Ray Tetra Interesting Facts and Features
The Weberian apparatus (the bony structure) in the X-Ray Tetra's body works by transmitting sound waves through their vertebrate, that have been received by the swim bladder and are then taken to the inner ear, meaning that the X-Ray Tetra has excellent hearing. The transparency of their skin is thought to be a form of protection as predators find it much harder to spot them (along with their light yellow markings) amongst the dense vegetation, and shimmering water. Not only is the yellowish X-Ray Tetra popular in tanks, but an albino version of the species is also now commonly found in artificial communities worldwide.  
X-Ray Tetra Relationship with Humans
Since it was first described in 1894, this unique animal has been the subject of much fascination due to it's nearly transparent body. They are now one of the most popular species of tropical Fish to be kept in household tanks, mainly due to their ease of keeping as they are hardy, adaptable and undemanding. Their fast breeding rate is also thought to be one of the reasons why they have become quite so popular. Today, aquarium X-Ray Tetra do not come from the wild, but are instead commercially farmed for the trade, mainly in Eastern Europe and in the Far East.  
X-Ray Tetra Conservation Status and Life Today
The X-Ray Tetra has not been listed on the IUCN Red List as a species that is under threat in it's environment. However, increasing industry in the Amazon Basin means that there has been an increase in the levels of pollution in the water and therefore a decrease in water quality, leading to slight population declines in certain areas.
		 	      

	      The lemurs is a primate native to the island of Madagascar, a large island off the south east coast of Africa. There are approximately 10 different species of lemur inhabiting the island where the lemurs spend most of their time in the trees.   

Lemurs are best known for their large, round reflective eyes and their wailing screams. Lemurs also have furry, pointed ears and long tails, with lemurs often being compared to both monkeys and squirrels.  

The lemur will eat most small things from berries, nuts and leaves to insects and spiders and therefore the lemur has an omnivorous diet. Lemurs get most of their food from the surrounding trees but lemurs will occasionally forage for grub on the forest floor if they have no luck in the branches.  

The black and white ruffed lemur, the russet mouse lemur, the woolly lemur, the aye aye and the ring tail lemur are among the most common species of lemur found in Madagascar, although the Aye Aye is considered to be a species of lemur very different from the rest, mainly due to the long middle fingers of the aye aye which it uses to get food out of holes. There are four main types of lemur containing nearly 100 different lemur subspecies between them.  

The biggest threat to the lemur is deforestation, with around 90% of the Madagascan jungle having been destroyed. This means that the lemur populations are declining rapidly as the lemur has fewer trees to make its home in.  

The apex predator of Madagascar, the fossa, is also a big threat to the lemur, as lemurs are one of the favourite meals of a fossa. The lemur has fast reactions and is very agile which allows it to try to escape the fossa, but the fossa is a very stubborn and lightening quick animal, so the lemur generally becomes dinner.  

The most commonly known species of lemur is the ring-tailed lemur. with this lemur being very distinctive by the black and white ring markings on the lemurs tail. The ring-tailed lemur has a grey coloured fur and white tufts on its ears.  

Lemurs are small-medium sized primates with adult lemurs growing to a maximum of around 70 cm tall (plus their long tail which is often nearly as long as the body of the lemur). Lemurs also have sharp claws on their feet which enable the lemur to hold onto tree branches, particularly useful when the lemur is trying to escape from a hungry fossa!   

Lemurs are one of the few animals that live in a matriarchal society, which means that the female lemurs have more control over the group than the male lemurs. These lemur groups however, behave in a very similar way to other primates as they feed and groom each other, as well as sleeping close to one another. It is not known why lemurs exhibit this rare form of social structure.		 	      

	      Zebra Classification and Evolution
The Zebra is a large species of equine that is natively found roaming the grassy plains of sub-Saharan Africa. They are the largest and most distinctive wild horses with bodies that are patterned with white and black stripes, the exact placement of which is unique to each individual. There are three different species of Zebra that are found in Africa which are the Common Zebra (also known as the Plains Zebra and the Burchell's Zebra), the Grevy's Zebra (also known as the Imperial Zebra) and the Mountain Zebra. They are incredibly sociable animals that can travel vast distances in search of fresh grass and water but are severely threatened throughout much of their natural range due to increasing levels of human activity. Today, both the Grevy's Zebra and the Mountain Zebra are considered to be endangered species and although the Common Zebra is more widespread and numerous, there have been sharp population declines in certain areas.  
Zebra Anatomy and Appearance
Zebras are heavy bodied animals that are perfectly designed for speed with their long and slender legs and narrow hooves helping them to reach speeds of 40kph when running. In the same way as horses, they only have a single toe on each foot which they walk on the tip of and is protected by their tough hooves. Their black and white stripes are unique to each individual and help them to identify each other when in the herd. Zebras have long necks and heads that mean they can easily reach the grass on the ground and a mane that extends from their forehead and along their back to the tail. The pattern of their stripes varies between the species with Grevy's and Mountain Zebras having narrower stripes and white undersides, while the Common Zebra has broad stripes that cover it's entire body. The Grevy's Zebra is not only the largest of the Zebra species but is also easily identifiable by it's large, rounded ears.  
Zebra Distribution and Habitat
Zebras are found inhabiting the open grasslands and plains of East and Southern Africa where they spend almost of their time grazing on the grasses. The Common Zebra is the most numerous and has the widest natural range throughout East Africa where they are found roaming the grassy plains. The Mountain Zebra can be found grazing on the mountain grasslands of South-West Africa, while the Grevy's Zebra is confined to the arid grasslands and sub-desert steppe throughout Ethiopia, Somalia and in northern Kenya. Zebras have evolved to run incredibly fast so they are able to escape from dangerous predators and so rely heavily on the open plains for their survival. Although the Common Zebra has been least affected, all three species are at risk from population declines due to the loss of their natural habitats caused by by increasing levels of human activity.  
Zebra Behaviour and Lifestyle
Zebras are highly sociable animals that roam the savanna in herds for protection from predators. The Grevy's Zebra occupies herds more loosely than the other species with a stallion (male) patrolling enormous territories of up to 10 square kilometres, with mares (females) and their foals grazing freely and occasionally forming small groups that feed together. Both the Common Zebra and the Mountain Zebra inhabit their native regions in long-term herds that split into smaller family groups which are led by a dominant stallion and contain between one and six mares with their young. Their strong social bonds can make them very affectionate towards one another, often grooming each other using their teeth. During the mating season, males will fight fiercely for the right to breed with the females and do so by rearing up on their back legs whilst kicking and biting one another.   
Zebra Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Zebra is a relatively slow-developing mammal with females not being able to first breed until they are at least a few years old. After a gestation period that can last for between 10 months and a year, the female gives birth to a single foal that is born with it's stripes, mane and also has a little patch of hair in the middle of it's tummy. Zebra foals are able to stand within minutes of birth which is vital to ensure that they are able to run away to escape from predators. They are able to begin eating grass after a week and are weaned by the time they are 11 months old. Young Zebras remain with their mother until they are mature at around three years old when the males leave their natal herd to join an all-male bachelor group, while females stay with their mother. These bachelor groups begin to challenge the dominant stallions to try and take over the harem during the mating season.  
Zebra Diet and Prey
The Zebra is a herbivorous animal meaning that it only eats plant-matter in order to gain the nutrition that it needs to survive. The majority of the Zebra's diet (in fact around 90%) is comprised of a wide variety of different grasses with other plant matter including leaves and buds making up the rest. They use their sharp front teeth to nibble on the tough ends of grasses before grinding them up using the flat molars along it's cheeks. Due to the fact that grass has little nutritional value, Zebras must spend between 60% and 80% of the day grazing. Common Zebras are often seen drinking at water holes which they do every day but, due to the fact that the Grevy's Zebra and the Mountain Zebra inhabit drier, more arid regions, they often don't drink for several days at a time. In the dry season Zebras can travel vast distances in search of fresh grass and water holes that haven't yet dried up, with the Grevy's Zebra also known to dig into the ground of dried up river beds to access the water underground.  
Zebra Predators and Threats
The Zebra is a large and powerful animal that despite being herbivorous can easily outrun many of it's predators. Zebras are preyed upon by Lions, Leopards, Hyenas and African Wild Dogs, along with numerous other large carnivores such as Crocodiles when they are crossing rivers or drinking. Although their first instinct is to run away, Zebras are sometimes known to attack the animal that is threatening it by kicking and biting. However, when danger is spotted, Zebras alert one another of the threat and by running away from their predator as a tight herd, they often either confuse or simply intimidate their attacker. The biggest threat though to Africa's remaining Zebra populations is the increasing encroachment on their natural habitats by people, with the loss of their open plains to grazing for livestock and to clear land for agriculture.  
Zebra Interesting Facts and Features
The stripes of the Zebra remain a slight mystery to science even today as they were once thought to camouflage them into the natural light and shade of their surroundings to confuse predators, as once running as a herd, it is extremely difficult to remain focused on a single animal. The formation of the stripes on their rear end of the Zebra differs greatly between the three species with Common Zebras having horizontal stripes on it's haunches where those of the Grevy's Zebra curve upwards. These patterns on their rear ends are thought to differ so greatly so that members of the same herd are able to easily identify the individual at the front of the pack when running. As with other male horses, Zebra stallions are known to curl their top lips up which is thought to heighten their sense of smell. This so-called "horse laugh" is thought to prove vital for the male to be able to detect when a female is ready to mate.  
Zebra Relationship with Humans
Due to the free-roaming nature of Zebras and over vast distances, the increasing human presence throughout the world has meant that Zebras have been affected by the loss of their habitats throughout much of the natural range. However, one of the most intriguing things about Zebras to people is that because they are so closely related to other equines including Horses and Donkeys, Zebras has actually been able to breed with them to produce a hybrid foal, known as a Zonkey (Zebras and Donkeys) or as a Zorse (Zebras and Horses). Although it is not thought that the two species would naturally be able to mate in the wild due to geographical differences, a number of both Zonkey and Zorse individuals now exist around the world. Zebras are thought to have natural protection to certain parasites which has led people to breed Horses and Donkeys with Zebras to produce an animal that has the character and size of a Horse or Donkey but with the power and resilience of a Zebra. As with other cross-breed offspring though, Zonkeys and Zorses are infertile and so are unable to reproduce themselves.  
Zebra Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, two out of the three Zebras species are listed by the IUCN as animals that are Endangered and therefore face extinction from their natural habitats in the future. The Grevy's Zebra and the Mountain Zebra are found in increasingly isolated regions and their numbers continue to fall throughout their natural ranges. The Common Zebra is an animal that is listed as being of Least Concern from extinction in the wild and although they are still widespread and numbers appear to be relatively stable, they like the other species, are threatened by habitat loss throughout much of their natural range.
		 	      

	      Badgers are found living in the forests of Europe and western Asia, scavenging for roots and berries as well as worms and insects.
  
Amazingly badgers can run up to 30km an hour for short periods of time and have been known to successfully fight off bigger mammals such as wolves, coyotes and bears!
  
There have been occasional reports over the years of badgers being particularly aggressive towards dogs and even humans! The badger is capable of producing a painful bite, and some badgers are also known to carry a type of rabies.The most commonly known badgers are the white and black striped badgers in western Europe.   
Badgers are thought to be related to otters and weasels and can often grow to nearly a meter in length! The badger lives in underground burrows which often contains a maze of tunnels. It is thought that when digging its den, the badger is capable of removing tonnes of soil!  

Badger is the common name for any animal of the badger three subfamilies, which belong to the family Mustelidae. This is the same mammal family as the ferrets, the weasels, the otters, and several other types of carnivore meaning that the badger is most closely related to these animals.  

There are eight different species of badger, and these badger species are split into three badger subfamilies, the badgers of Europe and Asia, the Ratel badger or honey badger, and the American badger. The Asian stink badger was once classified as a badger but today this badger species is thought to be more closely related to the skunk than the badger.  

Typical badger species have short legs and badgers also tend to have a relatively heavy build. The badgers lower jaw is articulated to the badgers upper jaw meaning that it is almost impossible to dislocate the badgers jaw. This enables the badger to maintain its hold on the badgers prey with great ease, but limits the badgers jaw movement to hinging opening and shutting or sliding from side to side.		 	      

	      The ant is a small sized invertebrate that is found all around the world, with the exception of the polar regions including the Arctic Circle and Antarctica. As with many other species of insect, there are numerous ant species inhabiting many different environments all around the world.  

There are more than 12,000 recognised species of ant worldwide, but there are estimated to be nearly 14,000 in total. Ants are thought to have developed from wasp like creatures 100 million years ago after blooming flowers appeared on Earth.  

Ants are found in many different sizes and vary in colour depending on the species of ant. Some species of ant even have wings so are able to fly which only extends the range of their territory. In the more humid environment of the tropical jungles of the Southern Hemisphere, the ants are generally of the bigger species, often reaching more than a few centimetres long.  

Ants are extremely sociable insects and have a complex social structure where every ant individual has a purpose (effectively a job). Ants live in colonies and have a social structure from the worker ants that gather the materials and food, as well as nursing and caring for the ant larvae (the babies), to the queen ant that runs the nest and is the only female that reproduces in her colony.  

The queen ant often can live for over a year which is considerably longer than the lives of the worker ants which only really last for a couple of months. The queen ant produces between 800 and 1,500 eggs per day which are fertilised by the sperm of the male ants which is present in the nest. Remarkably, ant eggs that have not been fertilised will still hatch but produce sterile female ants that become worker ants as they cannot reproduce.  

Ants are omnivorous animals and therefore eat a mixture of both plant and animal matter. The diet of the ant primarily consists of leaves, fungi, honey, nectar, small insects and dead animals, although the exact diet of the ant depends on the species. Some ants species have a more herbivorous diet, where other species of ant mainly eat meat.  

Due to their abundance and small size, ants have numerous animals that prey on them from tiny insects to reptiles, mammals and fish, and even certain species of plant have also developed ways in which they can digest them.  

An ant is said to be able lift up to 50 times its own body weight, and be able to be pull more than 30 times it own body weight. This is the equivalent of an average human adult lifting a fully grown African elephant!
		 	      

	       The American Staffordshire Terrier dogs should be courageous, tenacious, friendly, extremely attentive, and extraordinarily devoted.  


Bred to be extremely friendly towards humans, American Staffordshire Terriers are not natural guard dogs. An overly protective and/or aggressive behavior, accompanied by fearlessness, is generally a bad sign. These dogs are good with children and owners, can sometimes get along with other dogs, cats and any other animal if raised properly and introduced through puppy years.  

 They can be aggressive if not socialized properly. These dogs learn quickly from the subtlest of our behaviors. They are thus not only highly responsive during training, but also pick up good habits, such as house training. This can become a problem when an owner unknowingly allows the dog to pick up bad behaviors. A typical training regimen should begin at 8 to 10 weeks of age.  

 It has been proven that Positive Reinforcement Training works very well with this breed.		 	      

	      The Malayan tiger is a smaller-sized subspecies of tiger, found throughout Malaysia and parts of Thailand. The Malayan tiger is today an endangered species but one of the more numerous wild tiger species.  

The Malayan tiger is found throughout the southern and central parts of the Malay Peninsula with its range also extending into parts of southern Thailand. The Malayan tiger is found inhabiting the less-dense forests and jungles where there is a higher supply of food.  

The Malayan tiger is the smallest species of tiger along with the Sumatran tiger, with average female Malayan tigers growing to around 2 meters in length. The smaller size of the Malayan tiger helps it to remain unseen in the clearer parts of the Malaysian jungle.  

The Malayan tiger was once thought to be the same as the Indochinese tiger, a larger tiger species found in the more northern parts of south-east Asia, and it was only recently that the two were classified as separate subspecies.  

The Malayan tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting it's prey by stalking it until the Malayan tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. Malayan tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the Malayan tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the Malayan tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Malayan tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Malayan tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Malayan tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Malayan tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Malayan tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the Malayan tiger is considered to be an endangered species. Modern estimates suggest that the current wild Malayan tiger population is between 600 and 800 individuals, making it one of the more numerous tiger species.		 	      

	      Hippopotamus Classification and Evolution
The Hippopotamus is a large semi-aquatic mammal that is found wallowing in the rivers and lakes across sub-Saharan Africa. Despite it's appearance, the Hippopotamus is actually thought to be most closely related to Whales as the two are thought to have had a common ancestor that existed roughly 54 million years ago. Also known as the Common Hippopotamus, it is one of two Hippo species that are found on the African continent with the other being the solitary and forest-dwelling Pygmy Hippopotamus which is only found in western Africa and is now Critically Endangered. Although the Common Hippopotamus remains abundant and widespread throughout it's current range, numbers are reportedly declining due to both hunting and habitat loss.   
Hippopotamus Anatomy and Appearance
The Hippopotamus has an enormous grey barrel-shaped body that can measure up to five meters in length and weigh more than four tonnes, and which is held up by short and stocky legs. One of the Hippopotamus's most distinctive features is their enormous jaws which contain two long canine teeth (tusks) which can grow up to 50 cm long and are used for fighting. Due to the fact that the Hippopotamus spends most of it's life resting in the water, they have a number of excellent adaptations to aid their semi-aquatic lifestyle including four webbed toes on each foot that help with swimming and walking on slippery banks, and the eyes, ears and nostrils of the Hippopotamus are situated on the top of it's head. This means that when the Hippopotamus's body is immersed in the water, they are still able to see, hear and breath whilst keeping cool in the hot sun.  
Hippopotamus Distribution and Habitat
Although historically the Hippopotamus would have once been found across Europe and Asia, today they are confined to Africa south of the Sahara Desert. The Hippopotamus is always found close to water and tends to prefer areas close to grasslands, where they feed during the night. Hippos are most commonly found in the deep and slow-moving rivers and lakes in eastern and southern countries, with only a few smaller and more isolated populations still found in the west. The Hippopotamus is also a resident of the seasonal wetlands where they wade through the swampy waters by day and graze on the small islands at night. Although the Hippopotamus is still common throughout much of sub-Saharan Africa, their numbers have been declining with one reason being loss of their natural habitats mainly caused by land clearance for agriculture.  
Hippopotamus Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Hippopotamus spends up to 18 hours a day in the water to keep cool but when darkness falls, they venture out onto land and follow well-trodden paths to their feeding grounds, before returning to the water in the morning. The Hippopotamus is one of the largest and most feared animals in Africa as both males and females are known to be incredibly aggressive at points. The Hippopotamus tends to live in small herds containing between 10 and 20 individuals that are comprised of females with their young. The herd is led by the dominant male who will fiercely guard his stretch of river bank from both intruders and rival males, threatening them by opening his enormous mouth to expose the half meter long tusks. If this fails, the two will fight and deadly injuries often being caused. Although the dominant male will allow other males to enter his territory providing they are well-behaved, he holds the breeding rights with the females in the herd.  
Hippopotamus Reproduction and Life Cycles
After a gestation period that lasts for around eight months, the female Hippopotamus gives birth to a single calf generally during the rainy season. Although like many other activities (including mating) the Hippopotamus often gives birth in the water, it is not actually that uncommon for their young to be born on land. The female protects her calf fiercely and it rides on her back to keep it safe. Hippopotamus calves are fully weaned by the time they are 18 months old but tend to remain with their mother until they are fully grown, often not leaving her until they are 7 or 8 years old. Although young males will become more independent and find their own patch of bank to patrol, females will join a herd of other females and young but despite this seemingly sociable behaviour, they do not seem to interact socially and will even graze on their own when they leave the water at night.   
Hippopotamus Diet and Prey
The Hippopotamus is a herbivorous animal meaning that despite it's enormously long and sharp teeth, they are vegetarians. Different species of grasses are the main source of food for the Hippopotamus that are found growing on plains relatively close to water. When they come onto land at night, Hippo's may travel up to 5km during the night to get to their feeding grounds which they do by following paths that are marked with dung. Oddly enough, the Hippopotamus doesn't even use it's large canines for eating at all but instead has strong lips that are used to clip the grasses and cheek teeth which then grind them up. Despite it's large size, the Hippopotamus only eats around 40kg of food a night as it uses very little energy whilst floating in the water for most of the day. In areas that are close to Human settlements, Hippos have also been known to invade crops consuming mainly rice plants and simply trampling over others.  
Hippopotamus Predators and Threats
The Hippopotamus is one of the largest mammals on the African continent and although mature adults are much harder for predators to kill, they are still preyed up by a number of predators throughout the wetlands. Big cats such as Lions and other animals like Hyenas and Crocodiles are the most common predators of the Hippopotamus, particularly of the young or sick individuals. It is because of this that females are thought to congregate in herds as larger numbers are more intimidating to hungry carnivores. The Hippopotamus is also threatened by people not only from the loss of their natural habitats, but also from hunting. The Hippopotamus has been hunted by people for both it's meat and it's teeth which are made of ivory. Since the ban on trading Elephant ivory, the number of Hippos killed for their teeth has risen dramatically.  
Hippopotamus Interesting Facts and Features
The Hippopotamus has an enormous head which makes up around a third of it's total body weight, with it's vast mouth being able to open up to 150 degrees and revealing it's large tusks which can weigh up to 3kg each. Due to the way that the skin of the Hippopotamus is made up, the animal cannot sweat so when it comes into contact with air the skin easily dries up. Although this is not a problem in the water, to combat this the rest of the time a pink, oily substance is secreted through glands in the skin which is not only thought to prevent sunburn but also may have anti-bacterial properties that helps to keep wounds clean and prevent infection from the dirty water. Even though the Hippopotamus looks like it would be slow on land thanks to it's short and stubby legs, they are actually able to run at quite remarkable speeds and are capable of reaching 30mph when running.  
Hippopotamus Relationship with Humans
The Hippopotamus can be found in all kinds of ancient African folklore with it's name in Greek actually meaning "Water Horse". Despite this fascination with the Hippopotamus, hunting of them for their meat and tusks has wiped them out from vast areas of their once large natural range and numbers continue to fall particularly in certain areas due to habitat loss. In these areas where the Hippopotamus is often forced to raid crops in order to find food, they are seen as pests by farmers who not only fear for their livelihood, but also for their lives themselves. The Hippopotamus is known to be an aggressive animal that is considered by many to be among Africa's most dangerous mammals, as attacks on people (particularly fishermen) are not unheard of.   
Hippopotamus Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Hippopotamus is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Vulnerable in it's natural environment however, the Hippopotamus is still considered to be abundant throughout much of it's current natural range with the exception of populations in western Africa that are becoming more and more isolated. Although Hippopotamus populations are considered stable in a number of countries in the south and the east of the continent, they are declining in many others and are particularly threatened by continuing poaching of them for their tusks.
		 	      

	      The white faced capuchin, also known as the white headed capuchin and the white throated capuchin, is a medium sized species of monkey that is native to the jungles of Central America and the northern regions of South America.  

The white faced capuchin is one of the most well known monkeys, particularly in North America, and the white faced capuchin is thought to be one of the most intelligent monkeys in the world with the white faced capuchin being best known as a companion for organ grinders and are also used to assist people that are paraplegic.  

The white faced capuchin plays a vital role in the eco-system where the white faced capuchin inhabits, as the white faced capuchin is one of the most effective dispersers of plant and fruit seeds throughout the jungle. The white faced capuchin does this by eating the fruits and berries that grow in the surrounding jungle and the seeds are then put back into the ground in the feces of the white faced capuchin.  

The white faced capuchin live in troops which generally contain around 20 individual white faced capuchin members. The white faced capuchin tends to live between 15 and 20 years in the wild, in captivity however, the white faced capuchin has been recorded to live until it is more than 50 years old!  

The white faced capuchin is a highly adaptable mammal and is known to live in all different types of forest in Central and South America. Although the white faced capuchin mainly feeds on fruits and berries, the white faced capuchin also eats insects, plants and even small creatures such as frogs and birds.  

Within a white faced capuchin troop, there tend to be more female white faced capuchin members than males and as with many other species of sociable primates, the white faced capuchin troop generally has an alpha male member whose primary role is to breed with the female members and to protect their troop.  

White faced capuchin troops are not thought to be highly territorial as they spend a great deal of their time on the move. On average a white faced capuchin will travel 2 km every day but there always seems to be conflict when faced with a different troop of white faced capuchin monkeys.		 	      

	      The wolf is thought to be an ice age survivor, dating  wolves around 300,000 years ago. The wolf is accepted to be the ancestor of the domestic dog as the wolf is thought to have selectively bred in order to breed appealing traits typical of puppies and to eliminate the not so appealing traits of adult wolves.  

The grey wolf is a  highly adaptive animal found in all kinds of terrain. Wolves inhabit forests, deserts, mountains, tundras, grasslands and even urban areas with the wolf being a particularly dominant and ruthless predator within it's environment. They vary in color from pure white to pure black and every shade of brown and gray inbetween.  At one time the wolf had the widest distribution of any mammal.  The biggest wolves on earth live in Alaska and average 125-135 lb.  One specimen was taken that weighed 200 lb.  The smallest wolves live in Iran and average about 60 lb.  

The wolf lives to be approximately 10 years old in the wild. Wolves live in packs that generally consist of the alpha male wolf, his mate the alpha female, and their offspring of various ages.  Other wolves may also join, but it is the parents that are the leaders. The wolf has no real natural predators;  their biggest threat is other wolf packs on adjacent territories. The wolf has been known to live up to 20 years old in captivity.   

Wolves are carnivorous animals and generally hunt large animals but wolves will also hunt smaller animals if they are need of their daily meal. Wolves hunt together in their packs and work together as a team in order to catch and kill a large animal such as moose and deer.  Wolves are opportunists and will not waste their energy chasing a healthy deer 10 miles when an injured or sick one is available.  The native Alaskan peoples call the wolf the "wild shepherd of the caribou".   

Wolves have a layer of thick fur which is particularly needed for those wolves that inhabit areas of the Arctic circle where it can be extremely cold. It is during the winter months in these areas that calories are most critical . Larger animals such as elk and deer suffer greatly from the cold and lack of food to eat and it is during this time that the prey of the wolf is at its slowest and therefore is easier to catch.  

Wolves are considered to be an endangered species today as wolves have been widely exterminated from their former ranges by hunting, poisoning,  and trapping to procure their fur and to protect livestock.  Wolves have also been severely affected by habitat loss and have been pushed into smaller and smaller territories where the food source may not be plentiful enough to sustain a hungry wolf pack and where heavy inbreeding occurs.  

Wolves tend to mate in late winter to early spring and the wolf cubs are born are born a couple of months later when the weather is warmer and prey is abundant. The wolf cubs then have the rest of the year to grow stronger in order to be able to survive their first  cold winter. Wolf cubs stay with their mother in the wolf pack with the male wolf cubs often leaving to form a pack of their own.  

Wolves can interbreed freely with dogs, redwolves, coyotes, and jackals to produce fertile offspring.  This is a case of incomplete speciation.  There are physical, behavioral, and ecological differences between these species, but they are fully genetically compatible.  None of the animals in this group can breed with foxes, which are too far separated genetically.		 	      

	      The birds of paradise are a group of birds that are found in the tropical rainforests of south east Asia, mainly in the jungles of Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and parts of eastern Australia.  

Birds of paradise are best known for the beautiful array of feathers which are existent on the male birds of paradise, which the male bird of paradise uses to attract the attention of the surrounding female birds of paradise. As with many species of bird, the female birds of paradise are dull looking in comparison to their male counterparts and are generally smaller and have light brown feathers, and have a similar appearance to the nightingale.  

There are around 50 different birds of paradise species that range in size from 15cm to over a meter in height. Many of the birds of paradise species are extremely rare and are only found in particular habitats and in certain places. The birds of paradise were unknown to the western world until 1996 when David Attenborough stunned the world with his footage of the incredible birds whilst on a trip to Papua New Guinea.  

Many birds of paradise species feed on fruits and berries found in the canopy of the surrounding jungle. Some species however, are very partial to eating insects and other birds of paradise favour particular species of spider.  

Birds of paradise are known to be the most dramatic and attractive birds in the world. The brightly coloured plumage of the male birds of paradise contains colours ranging from red, to yellow, to green and along with their unique dance moves, the male birds of paradise really stand out on the forest floor.  

The beautiful, bright colours of the birds of paradise have made these birds a highly prized target for hunters and tribesman alike who use the brightly coloured feathers of the birds of paradise to create clothes and costumes. This practice and tradition has meant for enormous population declines for the birds of paradise, with some species being worse off than others.  

Birds of paradise tend to be solitary birds and only come together to mate. The male bird of paradise attracts a female bird of paradise using his bright feathers and perfected dance routine. The female bird of paradise lays her eggs in a nest. Unlike many other species of bird, the birds of paradise can nest on ground level, in the trees or in dense foliage.  

Birds of paradise chicks usually hatch within 20 days but the specific incubation period differs between species. The birds of paradise chicks are often born with no feathers at all although some hatchings are born with a few. The newly born birds of paradise chicks are unable to walk or stand and rely on the mother bird of paradise to find food. Birds of paradise chicks are usually independent by the time they are a month old.  

Adult birds of paradise have very few natural predators in the wild but the more vulnerable birds of paradise chicks are preyed upon by large birds of prey and the odd snake. The main predator of the birds of paradise is the humans that live in settlements in the same habitat. Birds of paradise are also being continually threatened by deforestation and habitat loss.
		 	      

	      The bloodhound is a gentle dog who is nonetheless tireless in following a scent. Due to the strong tracking instinct of the bloodhound, the bloodhound can be willful and somewhat difficult to obedience train. However, with the proper amount of time, effort, and how well you treat the bloodhound, this can be achieved easily.  

The bloodhound is very affectionate, gentle, and even-tempered and bloodhounds make excellent family pets but, like any large breed, the bloodhound will require supervision when around small children because the bloodhound could easily knock them over with their large size.  

Bloodhounds are also characterized by a stubborn whats-in-it-for-me? temperament, which along with the size and excessive drooling of the bloodhound, means that there is a high number of bloodhounds given up for adoption once full-grown in comparison with other breeds.		 	      

	      Barb are a small sized group of fish that are naturally found in the freshwater rivers and lakes across the southern hemisphere. There are over 2,000 known species of barb in the world inhabiting the frehswater regions of Asia, Africa and South America.  

The barb fish is often referred to as a freshwater shark, due to the fact that barb are one of the few species of freshwater fish to have rows of teeth in their mouths. Despite their small size, barbs are known to be ferocious hunters and are dominant predators in the world of small fish in their natural environment. Barb do only prey upon the fish that are smaller than them, but also on medium sized fish that can sometimes be double the size of the barb.   

Due to their small size and bright colours barb are commonly kept in household aquariums worldwide. The most common barb kept in aquariums are the cherry barb (pink/red in colour) and the tiger barb (silver body with thick, black stripes and red fin on it's belly) .  

Barb are known to be relatively hardy fish and can easily adapt to changes in the water including changes in pH levels and temperate. It is known that barbs can successfully inhabit unheated tanks, and although this has proved to be successful in many cases, it is not recommended as barb are naturally found in warmer tropical waters.  

Due to their aggressive and dominant nature, it is not ideal to keep barbs in artificial tanks with smaller species of tropical fish. At the same time, barb will also hunt medium sized fish if there is a lack of food, and so are best kept on their own (just barbs) or with much larger species of fish.  

Barbs are known to lay numerous eggs in order for a few to hatch successfully. The baby barb are called fry and generally hatch within a few days of being laid. Like their hardy barb parents, the barb fry are able to adapt well to changes in their surroundings.  

Barbs are opportunists and will therefore eat almost anything that they can find. Although barbs prefer a predominantly meat based diet that includes smaller fish, insects and bloodworm, barb are also known to eat aquatic plants particularly those that are softer and therefore easier to ingest. The exact diet of the barb however, depends on the species and the region in which it inhabits.		 	      

	      Zorse Classification and Evolution
The Zorse is one of a number of equine hybrids that are known as Zebroids, which is the name given to an equine hybrid that has Zebra ancestry. The Zorse is the result of cross-breeding a generally male Zebra (stallion) with a female Horse (mare) to produce an animal that looks more like a Horse than a Zebra, but one that has stripes. The Zebra part also gives the Zorse resistance to certain pests and diseases that normally affect both Horses and Donkeys, meaning that they are not only sturdy but also very hardy animals. Due to the fact that there are not only three different sub-species of Zebra but also nearly 300 different breeds of domestic Horse, the Zorse can vary quite dramatically particularly in size and colour, depending on it's parents.  
Zorse Anatomy and Appearance
The Zorse is very Horse-like in appearance as it inherits it's shape, size, colour and temperament from it's mother. One of the Zorse's most notable features is the dark stripes that are boldest on their legs and rear, along with also commonly being found on the rest of the body, neck and head. The Zorse tends to have short, coarse fur that can range in colour from tan to brown to black, with a darker mane and tail (although the exact characteristics of the Zorse are dependent on the breed of the female Horse). Zorses have a large head with a long muzzle, pricked up ears and large, dark eyes with long eyelashes that help to stop things from getting in their eyes. Zorses have long, thin legs that are incredibly muscular and end in generally black (but sometimes white) coloured hooves that are made from horn and allow the Zorse to be more sturdy when moving through various different terrains.  
Zorse Distribution and Habitat
Unlike the case with the Zonkey where there have been a number of wild Zonkey sightings reported, it is almost impossible for a fully wild Zorse to occur without Human intervention of some kind. There are three different sub-species of Zebra that are found in eastern and southern Africa on the vast open grasslands and savannah, but the incredibly rare wild Horse is historically native to parts of Europe and Asia meaning that the two species would not come together naturally in the wild. In parts of Africa though where Human settlements are either close to or intrude on the Zebra's natural habitat, it is possible for a semi-wild Zorse to occur with the mating of a wild Zebra with a domestic Horse. Nearly all of the world's Zorses however, are found either in zoos or animal institutes around the world, with a number also being used as work horses particularly in parts of North America.  
Zorse Behaviour and Lifestyle
In the wild, both Zebras and Horses roam throughout their natural environment in herds that can contain anywhere from two to more than two hundred individuals, making Zorses relatively sociable animals that prefer to live with other equines. Their temperaments however, are generally similar to those of their mother, including their strong flight response which is heightened by their Zebra side. Zorses are strong and muscular animals that spend the majority of their lives grazing and along with the fact that they are known to have better night vision than people, they are known to have almost 360 degree vision with the exception of a blind spot in front of their nose and directly behind them. The Zorse's large, pricked ears give it incredible hearing and their large nostrils mean that they also have a keen sense of smell.  
Zorse Reproduction and Life Cycles
Zorses are produced when a male Zebra mates with a female Horse. After a gestation period that usually lasts for around 11 months, the female Horse gives birth to a single Zorse foal. Like the offspring of numerous other hoofed-herbivores, the Zorse is able stand up within an hour after birth and begins to canter a few hours after that. Although they are much smaller in size than their parents, the Zorse is born with incredibly long legs that are actually nearly their adult length already. As with other hybrid animal including both Zonkeys and Mules, the Zorse is sterile meaning that although they still display normal breeding behaviour they are unable to produce offspring of their own. Zorses tend to be very healthy and hardy animals that can live to be more than 30 years old.   
Zorse Diet and Prey
Like other equines including both Zebras and Horses, the Zorse is a herbivorous animal meaning that it only consumes plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that it needs to survive. They spend almost all of their time grazing and like Horses, the Zorse has an advanced sense of taste which allows it to sort through grasses and grains in search of it's most favourable foods. The Zorse primarily eats grasses, herbs and flowers that grow on ground level, along with leaves, fruits and berries that it has to pull from the trees or finds on the floor. Zorses generally will not eat plants that are poisonous, but are known to resort to eating plants that contain toxins when there is not an adequate supply of more nutritious food. Oddly enough the Zorse's digestive system is designed to have food flowing through it almost continually, allowing them to graze nearly all day if they can.  
Zorse Predators and Threats
On the African plains, Zebras are an important source of food for a number of large carnivores including large felines such as Lions, Leopards and Cheetahs along with Hunting Dogs and also Hyenas. Zorses tend to be slightly larger in size than Zebras (depending on the size of their mother) and so would be a bit harder for these powerful predators to kill. In their native habitats, wild Horses are preyed upon by Wolf packs or Bears that try to single out a generally smaller or weaker individual from the herd. The biggest threat to both wild Horses and Africa's Zebra populations though is habitat loss either in the form of growing Human settlements or to clear land for agriculture, with populations declining throughout much of their natural ranges.  
Zorse Interesting Facts and Features
The Zorse is a cross between a Zebra stallion and a domestic mare, but it is also possible to use a Zebra mare and a domestic stallion. This is not that common however because owners of valuable Zebra mares don't want to waste a year of their breeding life trying to produce a hybrid when they could be producing a Zebra foal instead. In Africa, Zebras and Horses are often cross-bred to create Zorses that are used as trekking animals to transport both people and goods up and down the mountains. As with their Zebra father, the pattern of the Zorse's bold stripes is unique to each individual animal (much like the fingerprint of Human), meaning that they can be easily distinguished between one another, and if they were found naturally in the wild it could give them some form of camouflage into their surrounding environment.  
Zorse Relationship with Humans
The Zorse was originally bred in England and Africa to try and produce a domestic Horse-like animal that was resistant to diseases spread by the Tse Tse Fly in Africa (Zebras have a natural resistance where domestic Donkeys and Horses do not). The experimental crosses were actually becoming popular until early in the 20th century when the ever-improving car industry meant that fewer and fewer people were using Horses for transport. At that point cross-breeding was largely abandoned until a revival of interest came in the early 1990s, with just about every breed of domestic horse imaginable being tried. Zorses are bred and kept today for riding, as work animals and as attractions in zoos and animal institutes around the world.  
Zorse Conservation Status and Life Today
Due to the fact that the Zorse is a cross-bred animal and that it cannot continue a population, it is not listed by the IUCN. The three Zebra species though are all listed with the Plains Zebra as Least Concern, the Mountain Zebra as Vulnerable and the Grevy's Zebra as Endangered. The Przewalski's Horse which is the only species of wild Horse remaining, is actually Critically Endangered with populations falling so low that reintroduction schemes began reintroducing captive individuals back into their natural environment. 
		 	      

	      The woolly monkey is a medium to large sized primate, that inhabits the tropical forests of north-west South America. The woolly monkey is most well known for it's round-shaped head and dense fur that covers the body of the woolly monkey.  

Woolly monkeys are found throughout Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil and parts of Venezuela where they live an arboreal lifestyle. Woolly monkeys have long and very strong prehensile tails which allows them to balance and grip onto branches without having to give up the use of their hands.   

There are four different species of woolly monkey found in the South American jungles today. These are the brown woolly monkey (also known as the common woolly monkey), the grey woolly monkey, the Columbian woolly monkey and the silvery woolly monkey. All four of the different woolly monkey species are found in the same regions of South America.  

The woolly monkey gets its name from its soft and thick, curled fur which ranges from brown to black to grey, depending on the species of woolly monkey. Woolly monkeys have relatively stocky bodies, with powerful shoulders and hips.  

Like many other primate species, woolly monkeys live together in fairly large groups known as troops. The woolly monkey troops contain both male woolly monkeys and female woolly monkeys. The woolly monkey troop is also known to split up into smaller groups when it is time to forage for food.  

The woolly monkey is an omnivorous animal, meaning that it feeds on both plants and other animals. Fruit is the primary source of food for woolly monkeys, but they will also eat nuts, seeds, leaves, flowers, nectar, insects and even small rodents and reptiles.  

Due to their relatively large size, woolly monkeys have few natural predators within their jungle environment. Large birds of prey such as eagles, are the main predators of the young woolly monkeys, and wildcats such as ocelot and jaguars are the main predators of the adult woolly monkeys. The human is also one of the main predators of the woolly monkey as they are hunted for their meat and fur.  

The alpha male woolly monkey will mate with the females in his troop. After a gestation period of between 7 and 8 months, the baby woolly monkey is born. Woolly monkeys tend to only have one baby at a time although twins have been known to occur. The baby woolly monkey clings to it's mothers underside, before climbing up onto her back when it is around a week old. The baby woolly monkey is independent and no longer needs it's mother when it is around 6 months old.  

Due to deforestation and therefore habitat loss, the woolly monkey population numbers are drastically decreasing, with the woolly monkey now considered to be an animal species that is vulnerable to extinction. 		 	      

	      The wrasse is a typically small species of fish, found in the coastal waters of the world's major oceans. The Cleaner wrasse is the most commonly known wrasse species as it is often seen alongside other marine animals, including sharks.  

There are more than 500 different species of Wrasse found in the shallower coastal waters and coral reefs, of the Pacific, Indian and Atlantic oceans. Wrasse most commonly inhabit areas that have an abundance of both food and places to hide, making coral reefs and rocky shores the perfect home for the wrasse.  

Cleaner wrasse are the most well-known wrasse species as they are often seen going into the mouths of large marine animals in order remove the dead material inside. Cleaner wrasse feed on dead tissues, scales and parasites that lurk inside the mouth of the larger animal, and few are actually eaten by the predator that they are assisting.  

Wrasse come in a variety of colours and sizes depending on the species of wrasse. Wrasse tend to be relatively small in size, with many species of wrasse being less than 20 cm in length. One species of wrasse however is enormous in comparison, growing to more than 2 meters long.  

Wrasse are carnivorous animals that have thick lips with a row of teeth that usually face outwards. The mouth of the wrasse is protractile which means that it is capable of extending forwards. Wrasse feeds on a number of small invertebrates, small fish and food particles in the water. Wrasse are also known to follow large predatory fish, eating the trail of left-overs that it leaves behind it.  

Due to their small size, wrasse have numerous predators in their natural environment including larger fish, such as lionfish, dogfish and barracuda and wrasse are even eaten by some smaller species of shark.  

Wrasse are known to live for a relatively long-time particularly for their small size. Wrasse mate by releasing their eggs and sperm in to the water, which are fertilised and become part of the plankton until they are big enough to join the reef. Female wrasse lay thousands of eggs at at time so the wrasse population numbers are relatively high.		 	      

	       There are around 200 species of woodpecker inhabiting the forests and woodlands worldwide. Woodpeckers are found on every continent with the exception of the polar regions, Australia and Madagascar.  

The smallest species of woodpecker is the Bar-breasted Piculet that only grows to 8cm in height. The Gray Slaty woodpecker from south east Asia is the largest living woodpecker in the world with some of these woodpecker individuals growing to nearly 60 cm tall.  

The woodpecker has a distinctive long beak, which the woodpecker uses to make holes in trees. The woodpecker does this in order to dig out the grubs living under the bark.    

The average woodpecker is able to peck up to 20 pecks per second! The woodpecker is only able to peck so much and move it's head so quickly without getting a headache due to the air pockets that help to cushion the woodpecker's brain.  

Woodpeckers are omnivorous birds and feed on a mixture of plants and animals (mainly insects). The woodpecker eats seeds, berries, fruits, nuts and bugs but the exact species of the woodpecker's food depends upon the area which the woodpecker inhabits.  

Due to their generally small size, woodpeckers have numerous predators in their natural environment that not only prey upon the woodpecker itself but also the woodpecker's eggs. The main predators of the woodpecker include wild cats, foxes, rats. snakes and large birds although many other species of animal will prey on the woodpecker too.  

Most species of woodpecker inhabit forest and woodland areas although oddly enough, there are a few species of woodpecker that live in areas such as deserts and on hillsides, where there are no trees at all. These few woodpecker species still behave in a similar way and nest in holes in rocks and in plants such as cacti.  

Many of the 200 species of woodpecker on Earth, are today considered to be threatened or endangered animals. This is mainly due to the deforestation that is occurring on mass across the world, meaning that woodpeckers are losing their homes.  

Woodpeckers often have quite brightly coloured feathers although the exact colours of the woodpecker's feather depend on the woodpecker species. The brightly coloured feathers of the woodpecker which are often greens, browns, whites, reds and greys, help the woodpecker to camouflage more effectively into the surrounding forest.  

Woodpeckers make their nests in trees and excavate the hole themselves. Woodpeckers do not usually line the nest as the wood chippings that are there from when the woodpecker made the hole, act as a soft lining. The female woodpecker lays between 3 and 5 eggs that hatch after an incubation period of just a couple of weeks. The woodpecker chicks usually leave the nest when they are about a month old. Both the female woodpecker and the male woodpecker actively feed and raise the young, incubate the eggs and make the hole for the nest.		 	      

	      The horn shark is a small species of shark, natively found in the coastal waters of north-west North America. The horn shark is named for the broad, flattened head and high ridge found behind this shark's large eyes that is almost horn-like in appearance and makes this shark one of the hardiest of all shark species.   

The horn shark is endemic to the Pacific north-east, and is only found in the warmer waters off the coast of California. The horn shark is most commonly found along the temperate to sub-tropical continental shelves where it spends most of it's time in search of hard-shelled marine organisms to eat off the sea-bed.  

The horn shark is a small species of shark that typically measures about 1 meter in length. The horn shark can be most easily recognized by a short, blunt head with ridges over its eyes and two high dorsal fins with large venomous spines. The horn shark is usually a brown or grey colour with many small dark spots across it's body.  

The horn shark is a clumsy swimmer that prefers to use its flexible, muscular pectoral fins to push itself along the bottom of the ocean rather than swimming through it. The horn shark is usually solitary, though small groups have been recorded (particularly during the mating season). During the day, horn sharks rest motionless, hidden inside caves or crevices, or within thick mats of algae, though they remain relatively alert and will swim away quickly if disturbed. After dusk, they roam actively above the reef in search of food.  

Horn sharks are carnivorous predators and although they do eat fish and marine invertebrates on the ocean floor, around 95% of the horn shark's diet is made up of hard-shelled molluscs and crustaceans which they horn shark uses its short, hardened head to break them apart before eating the fleshy insides. Horn sharks also feed on echinoderms such as sea urchins and star fish.  

Despite being quite complex predators themselves, the relatively small size of the horn shark means that they are by no means at the top of the food chain within their natural environment. Large species of fish prey on the horn shark along with other sharks that share their native range. Humans are also one of the horn shark biggest threat as although they are not really hunted, horn sharks are often caught as by-catch when we are fishing for other things.   

Horn sharks tend to mate in between December and January with the female laying her eggs 4 to 5 months later. Female horn sharks can lay up to 24 eggs over a period of 2 weeks, which float in the ocean in a spiralled casing. The female horn shark is one of the only shark species to display pre-natal care, as she collects her eggs in her mouth before depositing them into the safety of crevices in the rocks. The horn shark pups usually hatch within a month.  

Today, as so little is known about the horn shark population off the Californian coast, they have been listed as being Data Deficient as their is not enough information about their status in the wild. Like many other species however, the horn shark populations are being threatened both by water pollution and commercial fishing in the area.
		 	      

	      The wombat is a medium sized marsupial that is found only in Australia and it's surrounding islands. Wombats are burrowing mammals that spend most of the day under ground, coming out at night to feed.   

The common wombat is thought to be a descendant of the giant wombat that existed around 50 million years ago. The giant wombat's extinction is said to be caused by hunting and changes to their environment including pollution and habitat loss.   

The common wombat is a nocturnal herbivore and gets to about 26 years old in the wild although some wombat individuals have been known to live for longer in captivity. Wombats eats grasses, shoots and bark which the wombat needs to keep gnawing on in order to keep it's continuously growing teeth at a manageable size.   

Like all other marsupials, the female wombat has a warm pouch on it's belly in which the wombat babies are nurtured for the first few months of life. When the baby wombats are first born they are very small and undeveloped and crawl into the mother wombat's pouch almost immediately. The baby wombat stays in the pouch of the mother wombat until the baby wombat is around 5 months old. By the time the baby wombat is roughly 7 months old, it is able to care for itself.  

Wombats have long claws which they use to dig burrows. Wombat burrows can easily become an extensive network of underground tunnels leading to small chambers. Most wombats are solitary animals but some wombats have been known to form underground colonies with other wombats.  

Wombats have a few natural predators including foxes and dingos. Although the wombat is relatively defenceless when it is out and about, wombats are generally well protected in their underground burrows as many predators cannot follow the wombat into the narrow, complex tunnels.  

Today the wombat is considered to be an endangered species of animal. Wombat numbers have been decreasing rapidly due to habitat loss and hunting by humans who believe the wombat and it's network of underground tunnels to be an agricultural pest.		 	      

	      Wild Boar Classification and Evolution
The Wild Boar is a species of Wild Pig, native to the forests of Europe, north-west Africa and it is also found throughout Asia. The Wild Boar has an extremely wide distribution with the number of estimated Wild Boar subspecies ranging from 4 to 25. Naturally, it is hard to classify them all as they can easily interbreed, so it is widely agreed that there are four main subspecies which are determined by their location. They are all very similar in size and appearance, but tend to vary somewhat in colour, depending on their geographic location. The Wild Boar is an extremely adaptable animal as it is found in a variety of different habitats, eats almost anything that will fit in it's mouth and not only runs fast, but also swims well too. They are also commonly known as European Wild Pigs, Hogs or simply Boars.  
Wild Boar Anatomy and Appearance
The Wild Boar is a medium-sized mammal with a large head and front end, that leads into a smaller hind. They have a thick and course double coat of fur, that consists of a harder, bristly top layer, with a softer undercoat beneath it. The hair that runs along the ridge of the Wild Boar's back is also longer than the rest. The Wild Boar varies from brown, to black, to red or dark grey in colour, something which generally depends on the individual's location. For example Wild Boar individuals found in Western Europe tend to be brown, where those inhabiting the forests of Eastern Europe can be completely black in colour. The Wild Boar has incredibly poor eyesight due to it's very small-sized eyes, but they also have a long, straight snout which enables them to have an incredibly acute sense of smell.  
Wild Boar Distribution and Habitat
The Wild Boar is the most widely distributed land mammal on Earth as it's native range extends from Western Europe, right across to Japan to the east, and down to the rainforests of Indonesia in the south. The four separate subspecies are determined by their location with one inhabiting Europe, north-western Africa and western Asia; another is found across northern Asia and in Japan; the third inhabits the tropical jungles of India, South East Asia and the Far East, with the last being found only in Indonesia. Wild Boars are found in a variety of different habitats including tropical jungles and grasslands, but they tend to favour deciduous broad-leafed forests where the vegetation is incredibly dense.  
Wild Boar Behaviour and Lifestyle
Wild Boar are nocturnal animals that only come out at night to forage for food. They spend around 12 hours sleeping in a dense nest of leaves during the day, before waking up to find a meal under the cover of night. Female Wild Boars are relatively sociable animals, inhabiting loose territories in groups known as sounders which can contain between 6 and 30 individuals. Sounders consist of breeding females and their young and can often be found in the same area as other groups, although the two tend not to mix. Males however, are solitary for the majority of the year, with the exception of during the breeding season when they can be found in close proximity of both the sounders, and indeed other males. Male Wild Boar compete with one another by fighting for the chance to mate with a female.  
Wild Boar Reproduction and Life Cycles
Once mated the female Wild Boar gives birth to 4 - 6 piglets in a nest found in a dense thicket, which is made up of leaves, grasses and moss. The mother remains with her piglets solidly for the first couple of weeks to protect them from hungry predators. Wild Boar piglets are incredibly distinctive animals as they have light brown fur, with cream and brown stripes that run the length of their backs. Although these stripes begin to disappear when the piglets are between 3 and 4 months old, they prove to camouflage the Wild Boar young into the debris on the forest floor, very effectively. Once they are two months old, the piglets begin to venture out of the nest on short foraging trips, before they become independent at around 7 months old and are almost red in colour. The fur of the Wild Boar does not reach adult colouration until the animal is about a year old.  
Wild Boar Diet and Prey
The Wild Boar is an omnivorous animal that primarily feeds on plants. Plant matter comprises around 90% of the Wild Boar's diet as they feed on young leaves, berries, grasses and fruits, and unearth roots and bulbs from the ground with their hard snouts. Living in highly seasonal regions, Wild Boars have had to adapt to the changing fruits and flowers, and are known to favour the protein-rich nuts (such as acorns) that become available in the autumn and prepare them for the winter ahead. They will however, eat almost anything that will fit into their mouths, and supplement their diet by eating eggs, Mice, Lizards, Worms and even Snakes. Wild Boar will also happily finish off the abandoned kill of another animal.  
Wild Boar Predators and Threats
Due to their incredibly large distribution, Wild Boars are prey to numerous predators of all shapes and sizes, throughout their natural habitats. Large felines such as Leopards, Lynx's and Tigers are amongst the most common predators of the Wild Boar, along with other large carnivores like Wolves and Bears, and also Humans. Although their numbers in the wild have dropped rapidly in much of their natural range, in other areas including mainland Europe, Poland and Pakistan, there have actually been significant population rises and the exact reasons are not really known. It is thought to be due to a variety of things including the decline of their main predators, their increased protection, and the more regulated hunting of them in their native regions.  
Wild Boar Interesting Facts and Features
The snout of the Wild Boar is probably one of this animal's most characteristic features, and like other Wild Pigs, it sets these mammals apart from the others. The snout of the Wild Boar has a cartilaginous disk at the end, which is supported by a small bone called the prenasal, that allows the Wild Boar's snout to be used as a bulldozer when it is foraging for food. All Wild Boars have tusks on their bottom lips, although the male's are larger than those of the female, and actually curve upwards out of their mouths. More interestingly however, males also have a hollow tusk on their top lip too, which actually acts life a knife-sharpener, constantly sharpening the male's bottom tusks, both of which can grow up to 6cm long.  
Wild Boar Relationship with Humans
Wild Boars are now farmed in many places for their meat but they have also been hunted for their sharp tusks as prize trophies for centuries, meaning that populations even became extinct in some areas, such as Britain. Today however, Humans have introduced the Wild Boar to numerous different countries around the world, purely so that they can be hunted and eaten. This includes Hawaii, The Galapagos Islands, Fiji, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, Sweden and Norway. They have in fact been farmed by people for so long, that the Wild Boar is actually the ancestor of common domestic Pigs. Although a number of the world's Wild Boar populations are actually increasing, the species as a whole has been threatened by habitat loss to Humans, mainly through deforestation and continuously growing settlements.  
Wild Boar Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Wild Boar has been listed by the IUCN as being a species that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Population numbers are suffering on the whole however, mainly due to hunting and loss of  habitat. In a number of areas though, there have actually been rapid inclines in Wild Boar populations, possibly due to the loss of many of their main predators such as Wolves and Tigers.		 	      

	      Indri Classification and Evolution
The Indri is a large species of Lemur found only on the secluded island of Madagascar. The Indri evolved in the same way as every other Lemur, from smaller individuals that came to the island from Africa around 50 million years ago. Due to the fact that there were no other primates to compete with, Lemurs soon adapted to live in a variety of habitats, producing a diverse range of different species. Locally, the Indri is known as the babakoto which means little father or ancestor of man. As the native people believe that the Indri (with it's lack of visible tail) resembles their ancestors, their is a certain taboo over consuming it, meaning that the Indri does receive some protection in parts of their native environments.  
Indri Anatomy and Appearance
Indris are the largest of all living Lemur species today. with some individuals reaching nearly a meter in height. The average Indri however, tends to be between 60 and 80 cm tall with a tail of just 5cm (all other Lemurs have tails that are around the same length as their bodies). The Indri has a dense coat of black silky fur with a varying number of white patches depending on the geographic region. Their toes and fingers are very dexterous and are good for grasping and their long hind legs aid them in leaping up to 10 meters between vertical branches in the forest. The yellow eyes of the Indri face forwards to help them to judge the distance before making a jump.  
Indri Distribution and Habitat
Like all Lemurs, the Indri is found only on the island of Madagascar in lowland jungle and tropical forests. Lemurs are arboreal animals meaning that they spend the majority of their lives, eating, sleeping and mating high up in the trees. Today, the Indri however is only found in small pockets of protected forest in Eastern Madagascar, due to increased levels of logging and the clearing of land for agriculture across the island. Although actual figures are unknown there are thought to be less than 10,000 Indri left in Madagascar, meaning that the species is under severe threat in it's natural environment.  
Indri Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Indri is a sociable animal, living in small family units of between 2 - 6 individuals, that consist of a male and female pair with their young. Lemurs are unique among primates as it is the females who are the dominant ones, meaning that they get to feed first while the males defend their territory. Indris communicate through a series of eerie wailing calls both to unite families and also to mark their territory, that can be heard up to 2km away. They also urinate along borders to mark out their patch. One of the most noticeable differences between Lemurs and Monkeys is their Dog-like snout which gives all Lemurs an excellent sense of smell so they are able to sniff out these markings with ease and avoid confrontation.  
Indri Reproduction and Life Cycles
Females Indris don't tend to reach sexual maturity until they are 8 or 9 years old, when they are able to have one infant every two or three years. The babies are usually born in May or June after a gestation period of between 4 and 5 months. The Indri infant clings onto the belly of it's mother for the first few months of life, when it then moves round onto her back. By the time Indri babies are around 8 months old, they are independent of their mother but generally remain with her until the age of 2 or 3. Sadly, half of all Indri babies are thought to die before the age of 2, usually due to sickness or injury. Although adult Indris have been known to get well into their twenties, most live for between 15 and 18 years.  
Indri Diet and Prey
The Indri is a herbivorous animal, unlike many other primates that will munch on almost everything in sight. Indris are diurnal animals meaning that they are most active during the day and this is when they hunt for food, both in the trees and on the ground. Females get first pickings and are often found foraging for very new leaves. Young leaves make up the majority of the Indri's diet along with fruits, seeds and flowers, which are easily picked up with their nimble fingers. Indris are known to eat a wide variety of plant matter although it is thought that they predominantly eat vegetation that comes from the trees.  
Indri Predators and Threats
Living high up in the trees means that the Indri is safe from many ground-dwelling predators, however, there are a number of animals that have no problem getting up to the Indri's height. The native Cat-like Fossa is the main predator of the Indri and is an incredibly agile and primarily tree-dwelling mammal that has evolved to catch one thing, Lemurs. Other predators of the Indri include large Birds Of Prey such as Hawks, and reptiles including Snakes, all of which the Indri are thought have to have different danger signals for. One of the largest threats to Madagascar's Indri populations however is habitat loss, as hundreds acres of natural jungle are being cleared every day.  
Indri Interesting Facts and Features
The Indri is the largest existent Lemur today and, like other Lemurs, is most closely related to more primitive primates including Bushbabies, Pottos and Lorises. Despite the fact that there are nearly 100 species of Lemur and their sub-species found today, the Indri is the only remaining species in it's genus. Before the island was ravaged by deforestation, it is thought that a different population of Indri occupied nearly every ridge in the eastern forests of Madagascar. The colour of the Indri differs between populations, with individuals further south thought to have more patches of white, while those in the more northern areas tend to be darker.   
Indri Relationship with Humans
Until industry started to take an interest in Madagascar's natural resources, the Indri seemed to have a relatively peaceful relationship with the native people and were not eaten by them. Today however, reports of non-locals hunting the Indri are of great concern to conservationists particularly at a time when populations are being so devastatingly affected by the destruction of their natural environments. Indri populations are now thought to be drastically low, as the Indri can only be found in protected forest regions (where logging and land devastation still occurs).  
Indri Conservation Status and Life Today
Although the exact number of Indri inhabiting Madagascar today is unknown, there are thought to only be up to 10,000 individuals left in the wild. Other estimates are more concerning claiming that there may be as few as 1,000 Indri remaining, but they are now protected with the listing as an endangered species. One of the biggest worries to science is that the Indri does not do well in captivity meaning that captive breeding programs to try and rehabilitate the dying populations are likely to be unsuccessful.


		 	      

	      The human being is part of the primate group that walks on two legs rather than than the usual four like most of the other primates, which is known as bipedal. The thing that sets human beings apart from other primates however, is the fact the human has a highly developed brain and therefore capable of abstract reasoning, language and problem solving.  

The modern human being is thought to have originated in Eastern Africa around 200,000 years ago and due to the advanced mental capacity of the human and the fact that humans have been able to use their two free arms to manipulate objects, has meant that human beings are more sophisticated in using tools than any other species of animal.  

The human population on Earth is thought to be exceeding 6.8 billion human individuals, a number which seems to be continuously growing year by year. Today there are large populations of human on every continent on Earth with the exception of Antarctica, a continent so cold and desolate that only a handful of the animal species actually exist there.  

Like many other species of primate humans are highly sociable animals and are able interact with one another through spoken language, gestures and written language. Humans have developed extremely complex social structures that have meant that the human population is linked together through a series of interlinking groups and organisations.  

The social interactions amongst the human race has today means that there is a wide variety of traditions, rituals, ethics and laws which together form the foundations of modern society. The human appreciation for aesthetic beauty has led to the development in art, literature, music and writing.  

Humans are particularly well known for their desire to acquire knowledge about and find the answers to complex questions about the world around them. This level of curiosity has led to the advancement in tools and skills, as humans are the only species of animal known to build fires, cook food, make clothes and develop technologies. Human beings pass these vital success skills down through the generations by using education.		 	      

	      The humpback whale is one of the bigger species of whale with the average adult humpback whale measuring more than 15m long (thats still about half the size of the blue whale).  

Humpback whales are found in all of the main oceans worldwide, but the humpback whales tend to stay in three main herds, the Atlantic, the Pacific and the Indian Ocean herds. There were once thought to be less than 15,000 humpback whale individuals left in the wild, with the humpback whale population declining by nearly 90% when whale hunting became popular with humans, meaning that the humpback whale was on the verge of extinction. Since new whaling laws have been put into place the humpback whale population has been allowed to grow again and today there are believed to be roughly 80,000 humpback whale individuals left in the wild.  

The humpback whales spend the summer months in the colder, polar waters and then the humpback whales migrate south in the winter to the warmer tropical waters where the humpback whales live off their fat reserves until they migrate north again in the summer. The average humpback whale can travel to around 25,000 km every year when the humpback whale migrates between the north and the south.  

Humpback whale mothers tend to give birth to their young during the winter months when the humpback whales are in the warmer, southern waters. The humpback whale mother feeds her calf on the milk that she produces but this means that the humpback mother is often very week when she returns to the colder, northern waters in the summer as the humpback whale mother often will not have eaten since the migration south months before.  

The humpback whale is a species of Baleen whale and is thought to be closely related to the blue whale and the minke whale. As the humpback whale is a type of Baleen whale, this means that the humpback whale has rows of plates in the enormous mouth of the humpback whale, which the humpback whale uses to filter small particles of food out of the water. The humpback whale therefore does not have teeth.  

Humpback whales primarily feed off krill and plankton that are present in their billions in richer waters. The humpback whale will also eat small fish and crabs that get taken into the vast mouth of the humpback whale when the humpback whale is filtering large amounts of water in order to extract the nutrients from it.  

The humpback whale has not one but two blow holes, which are located on the top of the humpback whales head. The blow holes of the humpback whale enable the humpback whale to breathe in air on the surface of the water. Humpback whales spout (breathe) around 1-2 times per minute when the humpback whale is resting, and 4-8 times per minutes after the humpback whale has made a deep dive into the ocean. The blow of the humpback whale is a double stream of spray that rises between 3 and 4 meters into the air above the surface of the water.   

Humpback whales are often seen migrating together in large pods but the relationships between groups of humpback whales are thought to be temporary and only last for a number of days. Humpback whales are also highly acrobatic animals and are often a favourite with whale watchers as the humpback whales can launch themselves high above the surface of the water.		 	      

	      The wildebeest is actually a subspecies of the antelope, despite it's bull-like appearance. There are two known species of wildebeest, both of which are native to Africa.  

The changing African seasons mean the wildebeest must migrate south in the winter, so the wildebeest can continue to graze on grass. Thousands of wildebeest all tend to migrate at once creating a wildebeest stampede.  

The wildebeest is a primary source of prey for many large African mammals, that often pick out the weaker wildebeest from the outside of the herd. Wildebeest generally grow to around 1.5 tall but are relatively defenceless against dominant, carnivorous predators such as lions and crocodiles .  

The wildebeest are able to sense thunderstorms that are up to 30 miles away and the wildebeest follow these rains across Africa in what is commonly known as the great migration. The wildebeest trek around 30 miles everyday and approximately 1,000 miles a year as the wildebeest follow the rains in order to find the best grass.  

When the baby wildebeest are born, they are often able to stand within a matter of minutes and these young wildebeest are soon able to run around and soon learn about the importance of protection in numbers. When the wildebeest are migrating around the African continent, the young wildebeest always stay very close to the mother wildebeest as it is easy for the young wildebeest to get lost when there are so many wildebeest travelling together or be preyed upon by watching predators.  

Wildebeest inhabit large plains on the African savanna where there is plenty of food for the wildebeest to eat. Wildebeest are herbivorous animals and graze on grasses, leaves and shoots.  

Wildebeest live together in large herds in order to protect each other as on their own, wildebeest are defenceless and therefore vulnerable in the African wilderness. When danger is spotted, the wildebeest warn each using groaning calls and then run together creating a stampede, both to escape approaching predators and also to intimidate them.		 	      

	      The whale shark is the largest species of fish with some adult whale sharks growing to nearly 50ft long! The whale shark is thought to have developed around 60 million years ago making the whale shark one of the oldest species on Earth today.  

The whale shark spends it's life swimming through the open oceans in search of fish and squid. Unlike many other species of shark, the whale shark is known to feed on large shoals of tiny fish rather than hunting bigger fish and sea mammals. This makes the whale shark a filter feeder similar to whales and smaller sea animals.  

The whale shark inhabits the warm, tropical waters around the equator and despite often being found close to coastlines, the whale shark is also known to dive to depths of up to 700 meters (that over 2,000ft deep). In this part of the ocean, food is more scarce and the whale shark will therefore only venture to such depths if hunting in the shallower waters is not possible.  

The whale shark is the perfect example of a so-called friendly shark and to date have posed no significant threat to humans (mainly divers). The whale shark is most commonly spotted around the Gulf of Mexico and the Indonesian Islands where the whale sharks have been known to be almost playful towards humans.  

Female whale sharks incubate their eggs inside them rather than outside. This means that whale sharks effectively give birth to live young. Inside the female whale shark are hundreds of eggs but only a few actually turn into baby whale sharks. The remaining eggs are thought to be there so that when the whale shark pups hatch, they have something to eat. The female whale shark gives birth to an average litter of 12 whale shark pups that are around 60 cm long.  

Whale sharks grow quickly during their first few years and soon the whale shark pups are extremely big and therefore less likely to be hunted by marine predators such as other shark species and killer whales. Whale sharks tend to live for around 60 to 80 years but have been known be more than 100 years old.		 	      

	      Horses  evolved over 50 million years from  small many toed animals to the big beautiful, single-toed horses of today. The modern horse has been domesticated around the world for many reasons including transportation and battle.  

Horses tend to live for about 30 years, and the oldest recorded horse at age 56 died in 2007. Horses graze on plant matter and vegetation, preferably tender green grass. The height of a horse is measured in hands, 1 hand being the same as 10cm (4 inches). The age of the horse is estimated by the pattern of tooth wear in his mouth.   

An adult female  is called a mare, and a young female is called a filly. An adult male is a stallion, and a young male is a colt.  An unweaned baby of either sex is a foal.  Castrated males and spayed females are called  geldings.  Mares carry their young inside them for approximately 11 months. When the baby horse is born, the young horse is often able to stand and then run about not long after birth. A mare comes into season one month after her foal is born.  If she is remated then, she will have a foal at the same time each year.    

The horses' hoofs are made out of horn which comes in different colors, with black being most common.  Horses with white feet often have white hoofs, which are more brittle than pigmented ones. Appaloosa horses often have striped hoofs consisting of both pigmented and white hoof material.  

There are thought to be more than 300 different breeds of horse found around the world today, each  being bred for a purpose.  Enormous draft horses such as Clydesdales pull heavy wagons, lighter saddle horses are for riding,  and pony breeds are suitable for children and small adults.  Miniature horses (30" and under) are primarily pets, though some have been used to guide blind people.   

Horses have remarkable hearing and are almost able to have 360 degree hearing. The sense of smell of the horse is better than that of a human but the horse tends to rely more on vision than smell. Their field of monocular vision is almost 360 degrees with a narrower field of binocular vision in front and slightly to the sides.  Horses have a blind spot directly in front of the nose and directly behind them.  For this reason it is better to approach from the side.  Whether they can see color is inconclusive.  They do have much better night vision than humans.  

Horses have an advanced sense of taste which allows the horse to sort through grasses and grains to find the things that the horse would most like to eat. Horses generally will not eat plants that are poisonous, but when the horse cannot find more adequate food, the horse will eat plants that contain toxins.  A horse's gut is designed to have food flowing through it almost continually, and horses graze most of the day if allowed.		 	      

	      The impala is one of the many species of antelope that is found inhabiting the African wilderness. The impala is a medium-sized antelope that is primarily found in the savannas and thicker bush-land in the more southern parts of the African continent.  

The male impala are well-known for their curved horns that are able to reach lengths of around 90 cm...thats bigger than the average impala individual! The male impala are known as rams, mainly due to the fact that the male impala use their horns when defending themselves both from other dominant male impala and from oncoming predators. The female impala do not have horns at all and they are known as ewes.  

The impala is thought to be one of the most adaptable animals living in the African savanna, as the impala is able to change its eating habits with the seasons and depending on what is available in the near surroundings. Impala like to graze on fresh grass but will also nibble on shoots and foliage when there is no grass growing nearby.  

The impala has many natural predators in the tough African landscape that include leopards, lions, cheetahs, crocodiles and hyenas. The impala though has a remarkable response when it feels threatened as the impala is able to jump over nine meters in distance and over two meters high. The impala is thought to do this in order to confuse its predators.  

The average impala individual, lives for around 12 years in the wild although this varies a great deal as the impala is such substantial prey to many of the carnivorous African predators. Some impala individuals that have been bred in captivity have been known to get to more than 20 years old.		 	      

	      The Indian elephant is a sub-species of Asian elephant which includes the Indian elephant, the Sumatran elephant, the Sri-Lanka elephant and the Borneo elephant. The Indian elephant is the most widely distributed of the four Asian elephant sub-species.  

The Indian elephant is found throughout south-east Asia including Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, Laos, Peninsular Malaysia, Burma, Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand  and Vietnam, and although spread out, the wild Indian elephant population is thought to be around just 20,000 individuals.  

Indian elephants have been domesticated for hundreds of years for foresting and often battle. There are many places across south-east Asia where Indian elephants are kept for tourists to ride, and are often treated fairly badly. All Asian elephants are well known for their immense strength and friendliness towards humans.  

The Indian elephant has smaller ears than the African elephant and the Indian elephant also has a more curved spine than the African elephant. Unlike the African elephants, the female Indian elephants very rarely have tusks, and if the female Indian elephant does have tusks, they are generally barely visible and can only be seen when the female Indian elephant opens her mouth.  

The Indian elephant follows strict migration routes that are determined by the monsoon season. The eldest elephant of the Indian elephant herd is responsible for remembering the migration route of its Indian elephant herd. This Indian elephant migration generally takes place between the wet and dry seasons and problems arose when farms where built along the migratory routes of the Indian elephant herds, as the Indian elephants caused a great deal of destruction to the newly founded farmland.  

Indian elephants are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that they need to survive. Indian elephants eat a wide variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, shoots, barks, fruits, nuts and seeds. Indian elephants often use their long trunk to assist them in gathering food.  

Due to their large size, Indian elephants have very few predators within their natural environment. Besides human hunters, tigers are the primary predator of the Indian elephant, although they tend to hunt the smaller Indian elephant calves rather than the much larger and stronger adults.  

Female Indian elephants are generally able to breed by the time they are 10 years old, and give birth to a single Indian elephant calf after a 22 month gestation period. When the Indian elephant calf is first born, it weighs about 100 kg, and is cared for not only by it's mother by also by other female Indian elephants in the herd (known as aunties). The infant Indian elephant remains with its mother until it is around 5 years old and gains its independence, with males often leaving the herd and female calves staying.  

Today, the Indian elephant is considered to be an animal that is in immediate danger of becoming extinct due to the fact that Indian elephant populations have been declining at a critical rate. Indian elephants are thought to be suffering primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation and hunting for their ivory tusks by human poachers. 
		 	      

	      The woodlouse is not an insect but a crustacean, that has 14 parts to its body, which gives the woodlouse the flexibility to be able to curl into a ball to protect itself from danger. This means that only the hard outer shell of the woodlouse is exposed.  

The woodlouse is found in dark, damp places in forests and jungles throughout the world. The woodlouse feeds on decaying leaf and plant matter on the forest floor, meaning that the woodlouse plays a vital role in the natural carbon dioxide cycle.  

The woodlouse is generally about 1 cm long but many species in the tropics are triple that size, some are even bigger. The woodlouse has an average lifespan of around 2 years but some are known to get up to 4 years old.   

The woodlouse is the only species of crustacean to inhabit inland and not watery habitats. There are thought to be over 3,000 different species of woodlouse around the world.  

The woodlouse is generally grey or brown in colour but the exact colour and size of the woodlouse is dependent on the woodlouse species and the area which the woodlouse inhabits. The woodlouse is found in nearly every environment in the world besides the polar regions and the arid desert.  

The woodlouse is a herbivorous animal and therefore only eats organic plant matter. The woodlouse rarely eats live plants and feeds on the decaying leaf and plant matter found on the forest floor such as leaves, rotting wood and fruits that fall from the trees above.  

Due to the small size of the woodlouse and despite the fact that the woodlouse can attempt to protect itself by curling up into a ball, the woodlouse is preyed upon by a number of animals around the world. Toads, centipedes, spiders, millipedes and the occasional wasp are the main predators of the woodlouse.  

The female woodlouse lays around 24 eggs which she keeps inside a brood pouch. The woodlouse eggs hatch after an incubation period of just a few days exposing the woodlouse babies. Due to the fact that the baby woodlice take a number of months to fully develop, the mother woodlouse will often stay close to her young until they are adult woodlice.		 	      

	      There are two main species of Horned Frog, the Argentine horned frog and the Cranwells horned frog, both of which are found in the wetland areas of Argentina on the tip of South America.  

The Argentine horned frog is also commonly known as the Argentine wide-mouthed Frog or Pacman frog, and is the most common species of horned frog. The Argentine horned frog is native to the rain forests of Argentina but can now be commonly found throughout Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil.  

The Argentine horned frog is most well known for being a voracious eater, as the horned frog will attempt to swallow anything that moves close to the horned frogs wide mouth. The horned frog tends to hunt things such as insects, small birds and mammals, lizards and other frogs, and the horned frog is often very greedy with its selection.  

The Cranwells horned frog is also originally from Argentina but is hard to find elsewhere as the Cranwells horned frog is an extremely popular exotic pet particularly in North America. This is because the horned frog is a very hardy species of frog, making the horned frog one of the easier exotic pets to look after.  

The horned frog is commonly known as the Pacman frog due the horned frogs very close resemblance to the characters in the Pacman video game.		 	      

	      The Himalayan cat (also known as the colourpoint Persian) is a mix-bred cat originally bred from the Siamese cat and the Persian cat. The Siamese was used for the fur markings and the Persian cat for their long fur and pretty features.  

The modern Himalayan cat shares the characteristics of both of its ancestors, but the Himalayan cat is one of the longest-haired cats in the world meaning they must be brushed regularly to prevent the Himalayan's fur from knotting.  

The Himalayan cat is sweet natured and loves human attention. The Siamese cat traits in the Himalayan cat make it more active than the Persian cat but more affectionate than a Siamese cat.  

Today, the Himalayan cat is one of the most popular breeds of domestic cat and is found in households all around the world. Himalayan cats do however require a lot of attention, as their long fur must be maintained and they must be kept amused.  

Due to the rounded body shape and short legs which the Himalayan cat inherited from the Persian cat, the Himalayan is generally less active than other domestic cat breeds, and their build also tends to inhibit their jumping abilities.		 	      

	       Whippets are generally quiet and gentle dogs, and may be content to spend much of the day resting. Although especially attached to their owners, they are friendly with visitors. Whippets are not prone to snapping, so they are good with young children. Because of their friendly nature whippets are known to have been used in aged care facilities.  

 They may bark when strangers arrive but are not suited to being guard dogs. They do, however, tend to attack cats that stray into their territory, unless they have been brought up living with a cat.  

Unlike some other breeds, male whippets are as easy to housebreak as females. Male whippets are also as unaggressive as female whippets. Males are sometimes considered to be slightly more loyal and enjoy repetitive play. Females can be a little more complex and strong-willed. Males tend to be one to two inches taller and three to six pounds heavier than females.		 	      

	      The hare, closely related to the rabbit, is a small mammal found primarily in the Northern hemisphere. Although there are different species of hare found all over the world, the hare is most commonly found in Europe and North America with the Arctic Hare found inhabiting the freezing climates within the Arctic Circle.  

The hare is one of the fastest of all the smaller animals, with hares being able to move at speeds of around 45mph. The strong hind legs of the hare, combined with the large feet of the hare give the hare the ability to run so quickly. The hare is also able to jump over large distances with great ease.  

The hare differs from the rabbit mainly in size, as hares are much larger than the average bunny rabbit. The baby hares are also born with their eyes open and a full coat of fur, and these hare babies are often able to hop about after just a few minutes in the outside world.  

Hares have very long ears with along with their accurate sense of smell, allow the hare to detect any oncoming predators often before the predators have even noticed the hare. The hare then hops very quickly, in a similar way to a kangaroo, in order to make an escape to safety.  

There are over 30 different species of hare found close to farmland and open forests worldwide. The hare is a very adaptable animal as there are species of hare also found in desert regions and of course, the bitterly cold Arctic Tundra.  

Due to the size and speed of the hare, the hare is generally not a first choice meal for many predators although there are a number of animals that will hunt hares. The predators of the hare include large birds of prey and wild dogs, and also humans who will often hunt hares both to eat and for pest control.  

The hare is generally a calm and docile animal, as hares spend most of their time resting and foraging for food. The hare mainly eats plant matter (grass being one of the favourite foods of the hare) but hares also eat seeds, vegetables and fruit in order to fill them up.  

Hares have often been used as symbolic signs, the definitions of which differ with cultures, and hare are also one of the most common animals used in folklore and stories in many different cultures around the world.  

Unlike rabbits, hares give birth to their young in nest on the ground rather than in burrows below the ground, which allows baby hares to become accustomed to a life of self-protection as the hares are not born in the safety of an underground burrow. Baby hares are often able to look after themselves from a very early age.		 	      

	       Ibizan Hounds are very intelligent, active, and engaging by nature. They are true clowns of the dog world, delighting in entertaining their people with their antics. Though somewhat independent and stubborn at times, they do take well to training if positive methods are used, but will balk at punitive training methods.   

They are generally quiet, but will alarm bark if necessary, so they make good watch dogs. They are sensitive hounds, and very good around children and other dogs alike.   

They generally make good house dogs, but are active and athletic, therefore need a lot of daily exercise. They do not make good kennel dogs.		 	      

	      White Tiger Classification and Evolution
The White Tiger (also known as the White Bengal Tiger) is a subspecies of Tiger, found throughout the Indian subcontinent. Although the range of the White Tiger is historically very large, these animals are incredibly rare as their colouration is dependent on a defective, recessive gene that is passed on from their parents. Over the past couple of centuries the White Tiger has become even rarer in the wild due to trophy hunting or capture for the exotic pet trade, with there having been no recorded sightings of these elusive predators for the past 50 years. Today, the White Tiger can still be found in a handful of zoos and animal sanctuaries around the world with these large and beautiful felines often being the star attraction. Along with the Bengal Tiger, the White Tiger is considered to be the second largest species of Tiger in the world after the Siberian Tiger.  
White Tiger Anatomy and Appearance
The White Tiger is a large and powerful animal that can weigh up to 300kg and reaches more than 3 meters in length. Unlike the white variations found in other animal species, the White Tiger is not an albino as they still carry some form of pigment that creates their fur colour, as some individuals are known to retain an orange tinge to their white coloured fur. Like other Tiger species, the White Tiger has black or dark brown stripes that run vertically along it's body, the pattern of which is unique to both the Tiger species and the individual. Along with the change in fur colour, the gene carried by the White Tiger's parents also means that they have blue eyes rather than the green or yellow coloured eyes of normal Bengal Tigers. Despite the beauty of the White Tiger's fur, it does in fact give these individuals a disadvantage as they are not so easily camouflaged into the surrounding jungle.  
White Tiger Distribution and Habitat
The White Tiger would once have been found throughout much of India and the surrounding countries but their range has decreased dramatically, particularly over the past 100 years or so. Today the Bengal Tiger is found in small pockets of it's natural habitat in India, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, and although populations are severely declining, they remain the most numerous Tiger species in the world. They are found in a variety of habitats including tropical forests, mangrove swamps and moist jungles that generally support dense vegetation and have a good source of fresh water. Although the White Tiger could once be found in the wild, it is very rare for the gene carrying parents to actually mate, and with the rapidly declining numbers of Bengal Tigers throughout their natural range, the chances of White Tigers being produced are becoming less every day.  
White Tiger Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like other Tiger species, the White Tiger is a solitary animal as this allows this large predator to sneak up on prey more effectively in the dense jungle. Although the White Tiger is not nocturnal, they do the majority of their hunting at night as this also helps them to hunt more successfully. White Tigers have incredible hearing and sight which, along with their stealth, helps them when hunting in the jungle in the dark. Each Tiger occupies a large territory that is marked by urine and claw marks on trees, and can be up to 75 square miles in size. Despite the fact that they are solitary animals except for during the mating season, male White Tiger territories can overlap with those of a number of females', particularly in areas which are high in prey. Male White Tigers will however, defend their patch fiercely from other males who may be trying to steal their spot.   
White Tiger Reproduction and Life Cycles
In order for a White Tiger to be produced, both of it's parents must carry the gene. Male and female White Tigers are attracted to one another by their roars and scent marks, and once mated, the male and female go their separate ways. After a gestation period that lasts for around 3 and a half months, the female White Tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs, which are blind and weigh roughly 1kg each and can have either white or orange fur. The White Tiger cubs suckle on the milk from their mother and begin to eat meat that she has caught for them when they are around 2 months old, and are weaned four months later. The White Tiger cubs begin to accompany their mother hunting and eventually leave her and begin their solitary life in the jungle when they are about 18 months of age. White Tigers have an average lifespan of 12 years, which can be longer in captivity.  
White Tiger Diet and Prey
In the same way as other Tiger species, the White Tiger is a carnivorous animal meaning that it only hunts and eats other animals in order to gain the nutrition that it needs. The White Tiger is an apex predator in it's environment, hunting it's prey by stalking it stealthily in the darkness of night. The White Tiger primarily hunts large, herbivorous animals including Deer, Wild Boar, Cattle and Goats that feed both in the jungle and on it's outskirts. The White Tiger has a number of adaptations to help it to both catch and kill it's prey, including being strong and powerful, incredibly fast, and having long and sharp claws and teeth.With growing Human settlements pushing the White Bengal Tiger into smaller and smaller pockets of it's historical range, they are also commonly known to hunt and kill livestock, with entrances into villages also becoming increasingly common.  
White Tiger Predators and Threats
In it's natural environment, the White Tiger has no predators due to the fact that it is such a big and powerful animal itself. They are however severely affected by people and have been for hundreds of years, as they have been both captured and hunted for their beauty, and have lost a significant chunk of their historical range to deforestation for both growing Human settlements and agriculture. With the loss in forest, there is also a decline in the White Tiger's prey so populations are becoming increasingly harder to sustain. The fact that the few Bengal Tigers that remain in the wild are becoming more and more isolated means that there is less of a chance that White Tigers will be produced, and this coupled with the severe declines in population numbers could mean that White Tigers have disappeared from the wild forever.  
White Tiger Interesting Facts and Features
Oddly enough, the White Tiger is thought to have a slightly shorter life expectancy than the normal Bengal Tiger. Although there is no evidence of this in the wild, captive studies conclude that it is due to the White Tiger's mutated genes and to the inbreeding that is required to continue breeding the White Tiger in captivity. One of the biggest reasons for White Tiger's becoming rarer and rarer in the wild is the fact that they were often captured by the rich, who kept them as an incredibly exotic pet. The White Tiger is one of the most versatile and adaptable predators in the Asian jungle as they are not only incredibly quick and agile at running, but they are also very capable swimmers, allowing them to breech natural boundaries such as rivers and wetland.  
White Tiger Relationship with Humans
Since they were first brought into captivity, White Tigers have been interbred by Humans in a business that is morally questionable and purely profit based. Since then, this already rare animal is thought to have disappeared completely as there have been no confirmed White Tiger reports since the mid 1900s. Although it is simply a question of two gene carrying individuals mating, the fact that people have hunted them and taken over much of their natural habitat, means that the chances of this happening are not very high. There is an issue however, with increasing instances of Bengal Tigers actually entering Human settlements which causes problems between the Tiger and the villagers. Due to the fact that Tigers are becoming increasingly more vulnerable animals, it is illegal to shoot them and so they often return to the same village night after night.   
White Tiger Conservation Status and Life Today
The White Tiger is a Bengal Tiger which is a species listed by the IUCN as Endangered and therefore severely threatened in it's surrounding environment. Estimates of around 100,000 Tigers found in the jungles and mangrove swamps of Asia were made at the beginning of the 1900s, but today there are thought to be less than 8,000 Tigers in the wild, with around 2,000 of these being Bengal Tigers. There are no White Tiger individuals known to be found outside of captivity.
		 	      

	      The western lowland gorilla is one of two subspecies of western gorilla (the other being the incredibly rare cross river gorilla) found in the jungles on the African continent. The western lowland gorilla is the most numerous species of western gorilla but is still considered to be critically endangered in the wild.   

The western lowland gorilla is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forests of western and central Africa, along with lowland swamps and secondary forests. The western lowland gorilla is found throughout Angola, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon and is also the most likely gorilla to be seen in the world's zoos.   

There are two separate sub-species of western gorilla which are the western lowland gorilla and the cross river gorilla. Although only slightly different in appearance, the two western gorilla species are distinguished by their differing skull and tooth sizes, and the cross river gorilla is also much rarer than the western lowland gorilla with only a handful thought to be left in the wild.  

The western lowland gorilla is one of the great apes, a group that includes orang-utans, gorillas, humans and chimpanzees. As with the other great apes, the western lowland gorilla has a number of features which makes living in the jungle a bit easier, including having opposable thumbs which come in handy when the western lowland gorilla is peeling fruit.  

The western lowland gorilla is an omnivorous animal, but the majority of it's diet is made up of eating fruit which the western lowland gorilla is known to travel vast distances through the forests to find. The western lowland gorilla also eats leaves, nuts and berries, along with insects and occasionally small animals such as lizards and rodents. The western lowland gorilla has also been observed using basic tools in the wild in order to more effectively gather food.   

Due to it's large size, the western lowland gorilla has few real predators in it's native African forests, with large cats such as leopards and the odd crocodile being the only real natural threat to the western lowland gorilla. The biggest threat to the western lowland gorilla is habitat loss caused by deforestation and also being hunted by humans. Parts of the western lowland gorilla's territory have also been taken over by civil unrest in recent years, which, along with poaching, has had a truly devastating affect on wild populations.  

The western lowland gorilla tends to live in groups which are led and protected by the alpha male. The alpha male western lowland gorilla also mates with the females in his group, producing generally single offspring, known as babies. The western lowland gorilla babies remain with their mother until they are a few years old and become independent.  

Today, the western lowland gorilla is classified as one of the world's critically endangered species with an estimated 95,000 western lowland gorilla individuals thought to be left in the jungles of Africa.
		 	      

	       The Harrier is cheerful, sweet-tempered, tolerant, and it is excellent with children. This pack dog is good with other dogs, but should be supervised with noncanine pets unless it is raised with them from puppyhood.  

 It prefers life in a pack with people, dogs, or both. This active dog likes to go exploring, sniffing, and trailing, so be sure to keep it on a leash or in a safe enclosed area. Some Harriers like to bay.		 	      

	      The woolly mammoth was an enormous mammal that once roamed the vast frozen, northern landscapes in large size. Believed to be closely related to the modern-day elephant, the woolly mammoth remained in the wild until roughly 1700 BC when it became extinct.  

The woolly mammoth was found roaming the bitter Arctic tundra where they would often gather in large herds for both warmth and protection. Woolly mammoths lived in two groups which are thought to have been different enough to be characterized as separate subspecies. One woolly mammoth group stayed in the middle of the high Arctic, while the other woolly mammoth group had a much wider range.  

The woolly mammoth was an enormous animal, with adults often reaching heights of four meters or more. Woolly mammoths in certain areas where, on average slightly smaller in size and could in fact be just half the size of one of the largest woolly mammoth individuals.  

As elephants do today, the woolly mammoth had enormous tusks which would have been used for both digging and collecting food, and for intimidating and fighting off both predators and rivals. The tusks of the woolly mammoth were often quite dramatically curved and could easily be up to 5 meters (16ft) long.  

Like the African and Asian elephants still found roaming the small parts of the planet today, the woolly mammoth was a herbivorous animal meaning that it survived on a purely plant-based diet. Woolly mammoths would have eaten similar vegetation to modern-day elephants, browsing the forests for leaves, fruits, nuts, twigs and berries.  

Due to the sheer size of the woolly mammoth, it had only one real predator in it's natural environment which was sabre-toothed cats that would often hunt the smaller woolly mammoth calves. Other than human hunters that quickly wiped out the woolly mammoth populations in vast areas of the Arctic tundra, the rapidly melting ice had an enormous impact on their demise.  

Although little is really known about the reproduction of woolly mammoths, it is quite likely that in a similar way to elephants, the female woolly mammoth would have given birth to a single woolly mammoth calf after a nearly year long (maybe even longer) gestation period. Woolly mammoths are thought to have had quite a long lifespan, getting to an average of 70 years old.  

It was generally assumed that the last woolly mammoths vanished from Europe and Southern Siberia in around 8,000 BC, with the last of the isolated woolly mammoth populations vanishing from Wrangel Island, located in the Arctic Ocean in around 1700 BC.
		 	      

	      Jellyfish (also known as jellies and sea jellies) are boneless animals that float freely through the world's oceans. Although jellyfish exist in our oceans worldwide they are particularly prominent in coastal areas. Jellyfish can be found in all shapes and sizes from just a few inches in diameter to well over a metre.  

There are thought to be around 2,000 different species of jellyfish, the most common being the big, colourful ones found in warmer coastal areas. There are four different types of jellyfish that are categorised by their shape and the way in which they behave.  

Despite the name, jellyfish are not actually fish but are instead classed in a group of their own as they are unlike any other animal on Earth. The body of the jellyfish is made up of a non-living jellylike substance called mesoglea. This jelly is surrounded by a layer of skin that is just one cell thick. The body of the jellyfish is mainly made up of water, around 90% in fact.  

Jellyfish also have tentacles around their mouths that vary in length depending on the species of jellyfish. The jellyfish use their tentacles to both catch and sting their prey. The tentacles of the jellyfish are covered in a skin that contains special cells, some that sting, some that grip and some that stick. The jellyfish is able to produce these cells at an alarming rate so they are effectively disposable to the jellyfish.  

Some jellyfish stings contain poison which the jellyfish uses to stun and kill its prey. The box jellyfish, found in the oceans around Australia, has a sting powerful enough to be fatal to humans. The long tentacles of the jellyfish are what produces the sting. Its been tried and tested...you can touch the top of the jellyfish without being hurt!   

The jellyfish is a carnivorous animal and despite it's appearance, the jellyfish is a remarkably efficient predator. Jellyfish use their tentacles to stun their prey before grabbing onto it and bringing it into their mouth. Jellyfish prey on a kinds of aquatic animals such as small fish, eggs and invertebrates along with anything else that gets stuck in their tentacles.  

Due to the fact that many species of jellyfish are transparent, they are often hard for predators to spot. However, jellyfish are drifters and move very slowly through the water sometimes using their tentacles to propel them along. Jellyfish are eaten by humans, sharks, squid and occasionally birds.  

Jellyfish release their eggs and sperm into the water which eventually meet and the egg is fertilised. The jellyfish egg quickly becomes and embryo and begins to develop in it's water world.		 	      

	      The hermit crab is a small sized crustacean, that is found in ocean waters worldwide.Despite its snail-like appearance the hermit crab is related to crabs, although they are not that closely related as the hermit crab is not a true crab.  

There are more than 500 different species of hermit crab found in marine habitats all around the world. Although hermit crabs do venture into deeper waters,they are more commonly found in coastal waters where there is more food and places to hide.   

The hermit crab has a soft under-body which it protects by carrying a shell on its back. The shell of the hermit crab is not its own, but one that belonged to another animal. As hermit crabs grow, they continue to find larger shells to accomodate their increasing size.  

Hermit crabs are omnivorous animals that eat pretty much anything they can find in the surrounding water. Small fish and invertebrates including worms, are the most common prey for the hermit crab along with plankton and other food particles in the water.  

Due to their small size, hermit crabs have numerous natural predators all around the world, which includes sharks, fish, cuttlefish, squid and octopuses. It is thought that hermit crabs often hide amongst other animals such as sea anemones as a form of natural protection.   

After mating, the female hermit crab carries large numbers of eggs in a mass that is attached to her abdomen. The hermit crab larvae hatch into the open ocean in just a few weeks, where they quickly moult exposing the adult hermit crab body underneath.		 	      

	      There are nearly 350 known species of hummingbird, found throughout the Southern Hemisphere. Although some species of hummingbird are occasionally found further north, these small birds tend to prefer the more tropical climates.  

Hummingbirds beat their wings 15-80 times every second (depending on the species) meaning that the hummingbird has the incredible ability to hover in the air. The hummingbird is also the only species of bird that is able to fly backwards.  

The bee hummingbird is native to Cuba and is the smallest bird in the world, measuring around less than 5cm tall and the bee hummingbird is around the same weight as a penny. The giant hummingbird found in the Andes is the world's largest hummingbird measuring more than 20cm in height.  

Hummingbirds have a long, pointed beak which when combined with the hummingbird's extendible tongue allows the hummingbird to gather nectar from deep inside flowers. As nectar is not an adequate source of protein, hummingbirds also prey upon insects and spiders in order to get all of their nutrients, especially when the hummingbirds are feeding their young.  

Many species of hummingbird do not survive their first year of life due to their vulnerability. Those hummingbird individuals however that do survive tend to have an average lifespan of around 4 years but some hummingbird individuals can live for much longer, with the oldest recorded hummingbird being at least 12 years old.   

Female hummingbirds make a cup shaped nest in the trees with male hummingbirds not helping with the nest building at all. Most species of hummingbird lay 2 white coloured eggs which are surprisingly large when the small size of the hummingbird is considered. The hummingbird eggs usually hatch within 3 weeks to reveal the tiny hummingbird chicks.  

Due to their small size, hummingbirds are preyed upon by a variety of animals including snakes, lizards and larger birds. Both wild and domestic cats also prey on the tiny hummingbird, but hummingbirds are known to be a difficult meal to catch for any predators due to their speed and agility particularly in the air.  

Hummingbirds have played a significant part in local myths and folklore. One of the Aztec gods was depicted as a hummingbird and one group of people believed that the hummingbird brought fire to the world. The tiny Caribbean islands of Trinidad and Tobago is known as the land of the hummingbird and the hummingbird can even be seen on their coat of arms.  

The hummingbirds name is thought to have originated from the noise the hummingbirds wings make when the hummingbird is hovering.  		 	      

	      The honey bee is a small sized bee that inhabiting quiet forests, jungles, meadows and gardens all all over the world.

There are only 7 recognized species of honey bee out of 20,000 different bee species found worldwide, but these individual species often contain their own subspecies. There are 44 known subspecies of the 7 species of honey bee.  

The honey bee is primarily involved in the production of honey and is today found worldwide. The honey bee is thought to originate from the jungles of south east Asia, where wild honey can still be found and the honey bee eventually took up residence in numerous countries.  

The honey bees build and inhabit a hive, run by their female queen  honey bee who populates the hive. The honey collects nectar from flowers which it takes back to the hive to be turned into honey. At the height of the summer, over 40,000 honey bees can be found inhabiting just one hive.  

Honeybees communicate with each other through 'dance language', which consists of movements made by the honey bee's tail. Honey bees primarily use this form of communication to warm other honey bees of oncoming danger.  

The honey bee is a herbivorous animal and therefore lives purely on the nutrients from plants. Honey bees prefer to ingest the sweeter plant produce such as nectar, pollen, fruits and even honey.  

Due to their small size, honey bees have a number of predators in their natural environment. Birds, small mammals, reptiles and other insects are known to prey on the honey bee and larger mammals such as bears are notorious for destroying the hive of the honey bees in order to eat the honey inside.  

The queen honey bee is the one who lays the eggs. She lays her eggs in a round-shaped mound that she then seals with wax. When the baby honey bees (larvae) hatch they are forced to eat their way out of their sealed dome.  

Honey bees are known to play a valuable part in the eco-system as around 1/3 of what humans eat is pollinated by bees. It is estimated that around 80% of the world's crop species are dependent on the pollination by bees to survive.  

Sadly due to high pollution levels and habitat loss, the honey bee populations are rapidly declining with the honey bee being one of the few insects that is classed as being endangered and is therefore severely threatened with extinction. Human beings do not give bees the respect they deserve, as honey bees are vital to the survival of plants which are in turn vital to the survival of humans. 
		 	      

	      The wolverine is a medium sized mammal that despite it's bear-like appearance (and it's name) is most closely related to the weasel. The wolverine is known to be strong and vicious and is said to have immense strength in comparison to it's size.  

The wolverine is found throughout Canada, Europe, parts of North America and the Arctic Circle where the wolverines inhabit mountainous regions and dense forests. Wolverines are also known to venture into more open areas such as plains and farmland when they are in search of food.  

The wolverine generally eats mice, rats and other small mammals, birds and eggs during the summer months when these small animals are in abundance. During the bitter winter however, when snow covers the ground, the wolverine tends to hunt larger animals such as reindeer (caribou), sheep and moose. Despite the fact that the wolverine is known to be capable of hunting down and killing animals that are so much bigger than itself, the wolverine tends to prefer to scavenge the kills of other animals such as wolves and bears. The wolverine will let the larger predators hunt the prey down and the wolverine then chases the hunter away by showing its teeth and growling fiercely. Then the wolverine is left to eat the kill.   

The wolverine uses its large teeth and powerful jaws to crush large bones and eat meat that has been frozen in the unforgiving Arctic winter. The wolverine also has long, sharp, powerful claws that the wolverine uses to catch it's prey and to defend itself from predators and other wolverines. The wolverine also uses it's claws for climbing and digging.   

Like the skunk, the wolverine has a strong-smelling fluid called musk which the wolverine uses to warn others to stay away. Wolverines also have a thick coat of brown fur to protect them from the freezing cold temperatures. The wolverine has large feet help it move across the soft snow, with five sharp claws on each foot.   

Wolverines are highly territorial animals and they will fight other wolverines to defend their territory.
Wolverines are not particularly fast movers (although they are known to reach speeds of more than 30mph when needed), so they do not chase or stalk their prey. However, wolverines are good climbers and often rest in trees, where the wolverines wait until the right moment to pounce on their prey from the trees or large rocks.  

The female wolverine has one litter every two or three years. She digs a den with tunnels in a snowdrift that is near piles of rocks. After a gestation period of nearly 2 months, the female wolverine gives birth to a small litter of baby wolverines (known as kits), usually 2 or 3 kits are born. The mother wolverines nurses her wolverines kits until they are around 10 weeks old and are then big enough and strong enough to start learning to hunt for themselves.  

Wolverines usually live to between 8 and 13 years old although some wolverine individuals in captivity have been known to nearly reach the age of 20!   

The wolverine is considered to be a near threatened species as the wolverine numbers are declining due to hunting and habitat loss.		 	      

	      The hyena is a carnivorous dog-like species of animal,  native to parts of both Africa and Asia. There are four known species of hyena, the spotted hyena, the striped hyena, the brown hyena and the aardwolf.  

Hyenas are scavenger mammals meaning that the hyena tends to eat another animals kill, rather than the hyena actually catching its own food. The hyena is well known for its cackling laugh-like scream, which the hyena is believed to use in order to alert other hyenas of a source of food. This hyena call is thought to be able to be heard by other hyenas for up to three miles.  

The hyena is a remarkably intelligent animal. Hyenas are thought to have being compared to primates and humans in the evolutionary status of the hyenas brain.  

All four hyena species have a bear-like stance as the front legs of a hyena are longer than the back legs of a hyena. The striped hyena, the brown hyena and the aardwolf all have a striped mane on the top of the hyenas neck that stands up when the hyena is frightened. The main of a spotted hyena is considerably shorter and appears to stand on end the majority of the time.  

Despite the hyenas once large range across Africa and parts of Asia and Europe, all four hyena species are today found mostly in the African Savannah. The only exception to this is that the striped hyena is often seen roaming in the jungles of India, and western Asia.   

The hyena is said to be one of the most abundant large carnivores on the African continent and the hyena is often viewed as an irritant by other large carnivores who actually make a kill that is then stolen by a hyena pack.  

The only animal that will hunt and kill a hyena intentionally is a human being.  Humans and hyenas have a long history of conflict ranging from hyenas killing livestock for an easy meal and the fact that humans used to believe that hyenas were related to witchcraft and supernatural activity, naturally making the human very wary of the hyena.  

Hyenas group together in packs with the den of the hyena pack generally being in the center of their territory. The hyena pack will tend to hunt for food as a group and the hyena is exceptionally strong jaws in relation to the body size of the hyena.		 	      

	      Water Vole Classification and Evolution
The Water Vole is a small species of semi-aquatic rodent that is found along the riverbanks throughout the UK and Europe. They are similar in appearance to Mice and Rats but have a number of distinctive differences including a flatter snout and a shorter tail. Also known as the European Water Vole, and incorrectly the Water Rat, the Water Vole first became properly famous as the character of Ratty from Kenneth Grahame's book, The Wind in the Willows, in the early 1900s. Water Voles are also commonly confused with the Brown Rat as they share very similar habitats along the riverbanks, have almost identical colouration, and both are adept swimmers. The Water Vole is one of six species of Vole found in the UK today.  
Water Vole Anatomy and Appearance
The Water Vole is a small sized rodent with a dark brown coat of fur, that has a number of black hairs scattered across it, and a lighter, greyish underside. The head and snout of the Water Vole are flatter and more rounded than those of other rodents, and it's ears are generally much smaller. They have a short tail, which is covered in a number of small hairs, and long claws on each of their feet which are primarily used for excavating burrows. The skin between the toes of the Water Vole is slightly webbed, making it easier for this small rodent to swim through the water. Males tend to be slightly larger than females but both are similar in appearance. The Water Vole is the largest Vole species in the UK and one of the largest species of Vole in the world.  
Water Vole Distribution and Habitat
The Water Vole is found throughout the UK and Europe, with it's range even extending into parts of Russia and populations are also found in certain parts of Canada and North America. However, they do not appear to survive well in more extreme environments such as the highlands of northern Scotland, or the hotter regions of southern France. Water Voles live along the banks of slow-moving rivers, streams and canals and can also be found nesting in the banks of lakes and marshes. They spend much of their time in their own burrow, the entrance to which is often on or just below the water's surface to protect them from predators. A female Water Vole's burrow can extend for around 70 meters along the riverbank, while the male's can be more than double this in length and often occupies the territories of a number of females.   
Water Vole Behaviour and Lifestyle
Water Voles are aquatic rodents that lead a diurnal lifestyle, meaning that they are most active during the day when they leave the safety of their burrow in search of food. Swimming right into the water, Water Voles gather aquatic plants which they often take back to the surface to consume. Their burrows are complex systems in the soft riverbanks, that often include a number of chambers, each with it's own purpose. Areas for sleeping, eating and nesting are created along with latrines on the outskirts of their territory, where faeces are deposited to mark the individual Water Vole's patch. Once weaned at about a month old, the young Water Voles leave their mother's burrow in search of somewhere to develop of their own. This can be quite hard though for populations that are contained in isolated bodies of water, and conflicts over the few available plots are not uncommon.  
Water Vole Reproduction and Life Cycles
Water Voles tend to have a fairly long breeding season, which usually lasts from March to September, sometimes even into October, depending on the climate. The female Water Vole constructs a nest from rushes and dried grass inside her burrow, giving birth to a litter of between 3 and 8 young after a gestation period that lasts for approximately three weeks. At birth, the baby Water Voles are extremely vulnerable weighing just 4 or 5 grammes and are completely hairless. They do however develop very quickly and have a full coat of fur by the end of their fifth day, and are able to see after about a week, They are fully weaned a couple of weeks later, when they leave the burrow they were born in and start the hunt for their own. Females tend to have a few litters per year, with their lifespan ranging between 5 months and two years in the wild.  
Water Vole Diet and Prey
Water Voles have a predominantly vegetarian diet, feeding on grasses along the riverbanks and aquatic plants that grow in the slow-moving waters. The diet of Water Voles does vary depending on their location and what is available, but these adaptable animals have been recorded to feed on 227 different species of plant, all of which are in close proximity to their burrow. One of the Water Voles most characteristic traits amongst rodents, is their ability to dive right into the water, a behaviour which is thought to help protect them from the many predators that they share their habitats with. It also means that there is less competition for food from neighbouring rodents like the Brown Rat.   
Water Vole Predators and Threats
Due to it's small size and the fact that it lives both on land and in the water, Water Voles are prey to numerous predators wherever they appear to live. Mammals including Mink, Weasels, Foxes and domestic Cats, along with Adders are the most common predators of the Water Vole on dry land, with Owls and other Birds Of Prey hunting them from the air, and large Fish species such as Pike, being their most common aquatic predator. Their vast reduction in numbers in recent years however is not just caused by this high level of predation, as the loss of much of their natural habitats has had a much more drastic effect. Water Voles habitats in the UK especially, are today considered to be protected areas as it is the loss of these that has been the primary cause for their demise.  
Water Vole Interesting Facts and Features
Despite their almost solely herbivorous diet, Water Voles are also known to feed on Insects and small aquatic animals such as Fish (particularly dead ones as they are easier to catch) when their preferred foods are in short supply. Even though Water Voles have a very high rate of reproduction, it is thought that around 70% of them do not make it through the winter, as food supplies dwindle and sometimes run out, meaning that the Water Voles find it very difficult to retain enough fat to keep them warm. The latrines that they use on the edges of their territories are almost fully exposed during the summer months as these indicate where a female might be and whether or not she is ready to mate.  
Water Vole Relationship with Humans
The Water Vole was first properly put into the public eye as one of the main characters of the 1908 Wind In The Willows novel, was a Water Vole called Ratty. Even though it has made more people aware of these secretive little rodents, it has also led to some confusion over their classification as they are often incorrectly referred to as Water Rats, to which they are only distantly related. In the United Kingdom, the Water Vole is protected by the fact that it's habitat is now conserved, hopefully meaning that populations will soon begin to properly recover again, with other countries looking to follow similar steps to protect their own native populations.  
Water Vole Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Water Vole is listed as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the wild in the immediate future, as despite drastic habitat loss, Water Vole populations are still widespread and sustainable in much of their native regions. In the UK, under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, it is a criminal offence to damage or obstruct access to any area that Water Voles use for shelter or protection. This protection however, does not extend to the actual Water Vole itself, but is more a step to protect the declining suitable habitats that remain, as it is the loss of these that has led to such a drastic drop in population numbers.		 	      

	      The Indian rhinoceros (also known as the great one-horned rhinoceros and the Asian one-horned rhinoceros) is a small species of rhinoceros native to parts of India and Nepal. The Indian rhinoceros gets it's common name from the fact that it only has one horn rather than two.  

Historically, the Indian rhinoceros had a vast range across northern India but today that range has been drastically reduced due to excessive hunting. The Indian rhinoceros is now confined to the tall grasslands and forests that surround the Himalayas Mountain range.   

The Indian rhinoceros is one of the smaller rhinoceros species, thought to be most closely related to the Javan rhinoceros. The Indian rhinoceros has one horn which it uses for defence, intimidation, digging up roots and breaking branches during feeding. The horn of the Indian rhinoceros is made from a substance called keratin and is therefore very strong. The horn of the Indian rhinoceros is used in ancient medicine and many Indian rhinos have been illegally poached for them.   

The Indian rhinoceros has relatively poor eyesight, relying more on hearing and smell to detect what is going on around them. The ears of the Indian rhinoceros possess a relatively wide rotational range to detect sounds and an excellent sense of smell to readily alert them to the presence of predators.  

The Indian rhinoceros is a herbivorous animal meaning that it sustains itself on a purely plant based diet. Indian rhinos browse the densely vegetated sub-tropical forest for leaves, flowers, buds, fruits, berries and roots which they dig up from the ground using their horns.  

Due to it's large size, the Indian rhino's only real predator in the wild are large wild cats such as tigers that will prey on the Indian rhino calves and weak individuals. Humans are the biggest threat to the Indian rhinoceros as they have been hunted to the brink of extinction for their horns.  

The Indian rhinoceros is solitary animal and only comes together with other Indian rhinos to mate. The female Indian rhinoceros gives birth to a single calf after a gestation period that is over a year long. The Indian rhinoceros calf remains with it's mother until it is at least 2 years old and big enough to become independent.  

Today, the Indian rhinoceros is an endangered animal and has been pushed into only a small fraction of it's historical territory by human hunters and deforestation. There are thought to be around 3,000 Indian rhinoceros individuals left in the wild, two thirds of which are believed to be in the Assam region of India.
		 	      

	       The Tibetan mastiff was originally bred in the Himalayan mountains to be used to a guard dog for flocks of goat, sheep and cows against hunters and natural hunters such as the Asian black bear and even tigers.  

There Tibetan mastiff flock guard and the English bred Tibetan mastiff differ enormously in their temperament. The Tibetan guard dog is more aggressive and much more assertive making them hard to train. The English bred Tibetan mastiff is well known for its quiet and relaxed personality, while being a good guard dog and loyal to its family.  		 	      

	      The thorny devil, also known as Thorny Dragon, Thorny Lizard, or the Moloch, is a small species of lizard native to Australia with there being no other lizard like the thorny devil anywhere in the world.  

The thorny devil is a small lizard with the average adult thorny devil only growing to around 20cm in length and weighing about the same as the average mouse. The thorny devil is best known for having an extremely spiky looking appearance and the thorny devil can blend well into the vast Australian desert due to the colour of the thorny devils skin.  

The body of the thorny devil has a very rigid structure which aids the thorny devil in collecting water. Amazingly, in between the cone shaped spikes of the thorny devil, little channels form along the thorny devils body which enables the thorny devil to collect water from any part of its body which is then transported to the mouth of the thorny devil.  

As with many species of lizard, the female thorny devil is generally slightly bigger than the male thorny devil and tend to be slightly paler in colour, with the male thorny devil having a slightly redder looking appearance. All thorny devil individuals tend to change from a paler to a darker colour when they cool down.  

The thorny devil also has a pretend head at the back of its neck which is used to mislead oncoming predators. The thorny devil dips its real head down and is therefore able to have a slight advantage on other animals.  

The thorny devil feeds mainly on ants and collects the much need moisture at night time generally from forming dew drops. The thorny devil can eat some thousands of ants every day, which is remarkable for such a small creature.		 	      

	      Insects are the most abundant group of living creatures  on earth with up to 30 million estimated species of insect found worldwide.  

Insects can be found in all ranges of environment even (but limited) in the oceans and rivers. Insects feed on other, smaller insects and decaying leaf and plant matter.  

Insects can been found to walk, swim and fly and are continuously evolving and adapting to the changing climates. Some species of insect, like the ant, have very sophisticated colonies with a successful power hierarchy.
  

Insects are known as invertebrates, meaning that they have no backbone. Most species of insect have a hard outer shell which protects the inside of the insect.  
		 	      

	      The tiger salamander is a small species of salamander, found inhabiting wetland habitats across North America. The tiger salamander can be easily distinguished from other species of salamander by the dark-coloured markings on the skin of the tiger salamander.  

An adult tiger salamander is rarely seen out in the open as they spend their lives in burrows about half a meter into the ground. Most adult tiger salamanders live in their burrows on the land, only returning to the water to mate.  

The tiger salamander is green, black, brown or grey in colour and has blotchy markings on its skin. The tiger salamander also has sturdy legs and a long tail, all of which the tiger salamander is able to regrow should these limbs become lost or damaged.  

The tiger salamander is a carnivorous amphibian mainly hunting worms, insects and spiders that crawl into its burrow. Adult tiger salamanders are also known to hunt much larger animals such as baby mice and small frogs.  

Due to the small size and ground-dwelling nature of the tiger salamander, the tiger salamander has numerous natural predators where it lives in North America. Raccoons, coatis and river turtles are the most common predators of the tiger salamander, along with birds and large reptiles.  

Most tiger salamander individuals will only get the chance to breed just once in their up to 15 years lifetime. The larvae of the tiger salamander are aquatic which means that the female tiger salamander lays her eggs in the water, generally on either a log or leaves close to the bottom of the water.  

The eggs of the tiger salamander hatch into larvae which come in two forms, cannibalistic (meaning that they eat one another ) and non-cannibalistic larvae. The larvae take a varied amount of time depending on the region, to fully metamorphose into an adult tiger salamander.
		 	      

	      Indian Palm Squirrels  are also known as the 3 stripe squirrel due to the mix of dark and white stripes on the back of the Indian palm squirrel. The Indian palm squirrel can be found nesting in the tree tops of exotic trees.  

The Indian palm squirrel is only naturally found in parts of India and Sri Lanka. Recent accidental introduction of the Indian palm squirrel into western Australia has made them a pest as the Indian palm squirrel has no real natural predators which has made the population of Indian palm squirrels in Australia thrive.   

The Indian palm squirrel naturally hunts for small mammals, birds and insects but the Indian palm squirrel has caused problems in recent years as the Indian palm squirrel has taken to eating crops.  

An Indian palm squirrel only weighs around 100g making the squirrel easy prey for small meat-eating mammals and birds. The Indian palm squirrel has often been reported going into peoples houses and the Indian palm squirrel can often be seen running up and down trees and houses.  

Unlike other species of squirrel, the Indian palm squirrel does not hibernate in winter but instead the Indian palm squirrels will only emerge from the warmth of their nests during the afternoon on sunny days.  

Indian palm squirrels create nests made up from grass and it is in the these nests that Indian palm squirrels give birth to and wean their young. Typically Indian palm squirrels give birth to 2 or 3 baby Indian palm squirrels which are weaned by the mother Indian palm squirrel until the baby Indian palm squirrel is around 10 weeks old.
		 	      

	      The white rhino is the second biggest land animal and can weight around 2 tons. The white rhino is the  most common species of the remaining rhino, and inhabits parts of Africa.  

There were around 11,000 white rhino counted in South Africa in 2005, but for unknown reasons the white rhino rate of reproduction is low. The white rhino is the only species of rhino that is not critically endangered.  

The white rhino has 2 horns on its head that are made of keratin. The white rhinos front horn averaging a length of 90cm but can get up to 150cm!  

The white rhinoceros has a noticeable hump on the back of its neck which helps to support the white rhinos large head. Each of the white rhinos four stumpy feet has three toes will help to distribute the enormous weight of the white rhino.  

The colour of the white rhino ranges from yellowish brown to grey and not white as the white rhinos name suggests (the white rhinos name is thought to have originated from a mis-translation of the white rhinos names from Dutch into English, with the white rhino thought to have been originally named the wide rhino and not the white rhino).  

The ears of a white rhino can move independently which helps the white rhino to pick up more sensitive sounds but the white rhino depends most of all on its sense of  smell. The white rhino, like other species of rhino has extremely poor eyesight for such a large animal.
		 	      

	      Iguanas  are native to the jungles of central and south America, and the Caribbean. The iguana is a large docile species of lizard, meaning that iguanas are often a popular choice when keeping exotic pets.  

Iguanas have excellent sight allowing the iguana to detect movement from incredibly long distances. The iguana can use this skill to seek out prey and be aware of approaching predators often before the predators has even noticed the iguana.  

It is said that the iguana uses visual signals to communicate with other iguanas. The iguanas do this through a series a rapid eye movements that other iguanas are able to pick up on easily due to the excellent sight of the iguana.  

Green Iguanas are forest dwelling lizards that live high in the tree canopy of the South American rainforest. Young iguanas get to grips with tree top living by staying in areas lower in the canopies while older mature adult iguanas reside higher up in the tree tops. This tree dwelling habit allows the iguana to bask in the sun, with little need to go down to the forest floor below. The only real exception to this is when the female iguanas must come down from their sky high home in order to dig burrows in which the female iguanas lay their eggs.   

Although iguanas tend to prefer the forest environment, iguanas can adjust well to a more open areas. However, wherever the iguanas inhabit, iguanas prefer to have water around them as iguanas are excellent swimmers and will often dive beneath the water to avoid oncoming predators.  

Although iguanas are classed as omnivores, most iguana individuals in the wild, tend to enjoy a very herbivorous diet, with ripened fruit being one of the iguanas favourite foods along with leafy green plants. Most mature adult iguanas weigh around 4 kg, but it is not uncommon for large, healthy iguanas where food is in good supply, to weigh up to 8 kg and grow to over 2 meters in length.  

Due to the natural green and brown colours of the scales of the iguana, iguanas are easily able to make themselves invisible to predators. Iguanas do this well as the iguana blends extremely effectively into the surrounding forest and the iguana will then remain extremely still until the predator has passed. Iguanas will often chose basking spots on those tree branches that hang over water so that if the iguana does feel threated, the iguana can leap from the tree into the water and therefore the iguana can quickly escape oncoming danger.
		 	      

	      The water buffalo is thought to have originated in Asia but has since been introduced to Australia, Africa, Europe and North America. The wild Asian water buffalo is now considered to be an endangered species.  

The water buffalo has been domesticated by humans for thousands of years and is used to pull heavy machinery and to carry heavy loads. Buffalo are farmed in most countries for their meat.  

The water buffalo lives in herds with anywhere from a few buffalo to bigger herds in Africa that commonly have hundreds of buffalo per herd. The buffalo is common prey for larger predators such as tigers, crocodiles and lions.  

The buffalo belongs to the same family of animals as wild cows. This group also includes the African buffalo and the American bison along with the yak and the zebu. Male water buffaloes have very distinctive, large curved horns on the tops of their heads. The male water buffalo is also about a third large than the female water buffalo and the male water buffalo is therefore more commonly used as agricultural aid.  

Water buffalo spend most of their time submerged in the muddy waters of Asia's tropical forests. By doing this, the water buffalo is able to keep itself cool in the hot and humid jungle conditions. The hooves on the water buffalo's feet are spread out which allows the water buffalo to stop itself from sinking into the mud on the river beds and swampland.  

The water buffalo is herbivorous animal and the water buffalo therefore has a purely vegetarian diet. Water buffalo munch on aquatic plants when they are in water but water buffalo seem to prefer to leave the water to find grassland where the water buffalo can graze on grasses, leaves and herbs.  

Female water buffalo produce one water buffalo calf every couple of years. After a gestation period of up to 11 months, the female water buffalo gives birth to her buffalo baby. The baby water buffalo stays with its mother and is dependant on her for it's first couple of years. After about three years, male water buffaloes leave the mother water buffalo to join all male water buffalo groups. The female water buffalo will often remain in the same water buffalo herd as it's mother.  

Although the wild Asian water buffalo is now considered to be an endangered animal, the commercially farmed water buffalo can be found all around the world. There are thought to be more than 150 million commercially farmed water buffalo across the globe today which are farmed for their milk, meat and leather.		 	      

	      The hedgehog is thought to be one of the oldest mammals on earth, with estimates dating the hedgehog to around 15 million years ago. It is believed that the hedgehog has changed very little over that period of time.  

The hedgehog is a small mammal that is predominantly  found in Europe, Asia and Africa and the hedgehog has also been artificially introduced to New Zealand.  

The hedgehog is commonly around 25 cm long, with the hedgehogs back being covered in spikes. The hedgehog can also protect itself by curling its body into a ball so only the hedgehog spikes are exposed. This method of only exposing the spikes of the hedgehog, keeps the hedgehog safe from predators.  

The hedgehog is a nocturnal mammal that naturally feasts on bugs and insects. It has been known for humans to domesticate hedgehogs in their gardens, by feeding the hedgehog year round until the hedgehog goes into hibernation in the winter.  

There are thought to be 16 different species of hedgehog found around the world although, oddly enough, there are no species of hedgehog that are native to Australia and no living species of hedgehog that are native to North America.  

The spikes of the hedgehog are hollow hairs that are made from the protein keratin (the same stuff that human hair and fingernails are made from), and unlike the spikes of the porcupine, the spikes of the hedgehog cannot be removed easily. The spikes of the hedgehog also differ from the spikes of the porcupine as the hedgehog spikes are not poisonous or barbed.  

When baby hedgehogs get to a certain age, the young hedgehog will shed the softer baby spikes that are then replaced with the stronger and darker spikes of the adult hedgehog. Hedgehogs have also been known to shed a number of spikes when the hedgehog is under extreme stress or if the hedgehog is poorly.  

All species of hedgehog have evolved to react to their natural surroundings slightly differently. Despite the fact that hedgehog species all commonly roll themselves into a tight ball to expose only their outward pointing spikes, some hedgehog species, such as those hedgehogs inhabiting the desert regions, will often try to run away from predators first leaving their spiky ball defense as a later option. This has led to hedgehogs in different environments to have different predators. For example, the larger forest hedgehogs are more commonly preyed upon by owls, birds and ferrets, where the smaller hedgehogs that exist in more open areas are hunted by foxes, wolves and weasels.  

Hedgehogs are well known for their need to hibernate during the colder winter months although this is not true for every hedgehog species around the world. Whether or not a hedgehog will hibernate, depends on the hedgehog species, the climate in which they live and how much food is available.  

Most hedgehog species are loudly vocal animals and use grunts and snuffles in order to communicate between one another. Some species of hedgehog will also communicate between each other using louder squealing noises.  

The larger species of hedgehog give birth to around 3 or 4 baby hedgehogs, but the smaller hedgehog species tend to have slightly larger litters and therefore give birth to 5 to 7 babies. When the hedgehog babies are first born, they are born blind and without their spikes. Although the spikes of the hedgehog babies can been vaguely seen under the skin, the spikes of the baby hedgehog will grow through the skin in a matter of days after the baby hedgehog has been given a thorough clean by the mother hedgehog.  

The larger species of hedgehog tend to live longer in the wild than the smaller species of hedgehog as the larger hedgehog species have fewer predators. The average age of a large hedgehog is around 8 years but the average age of a small hedgehog is about 5 years. Both species have known to live longer in captivity as the risk of predators has been removed.		 	      

	      The horseshoe crab (also known as the king crab), is a hard-shelled invertebrate found on the sea floor in warmer climates. Despite it's name, the horseshoe crab is not actually a crab (or crustacean) and is in fact more closely related to arachnids such as spiders and scorpions.  

There are four different species of horseshoe crab found inhabiting the warmer shallows off the coasts of India, Japan, Indonesia, the eastern USA, and the Gulf of Mexico.   

The horseshoe crab has a hard outer shell, five pairs of legs and a long, thin tail which the horseshoe crab uses for changing direction whilst swimming rather than as a defensive weapon.  

The appearance of the horseshoe crab is thought to have changed very little from when it first evolved around 500 million years ago. Horseshoe crabs breathe using book gills, which are thin plates found on the abdomen of the horseshoe crab.  

Horseshoe crabs are generally nocturnal animals, coming out of the shadows in the darkness in order to hunt for food. As carnivorous animals, horseshoe crabs only eat meat including sea worms, small molluscs and crustaceans.  

Thanks to their armoured casing, horseshoe crabs have few natural predators and are primarily hunted by sharks and sea turtles. Humans also widely hunt the horseshoe crab around the world, along with coastal birds that pick the horseshoe crabs out of the shallows.  

Female horseshoe crabs are known to lay between 60,000 to 120,000 eggs at a time. After mating, the female horseshoe crab lays her eggs into a hole in the sand which she then covers up to protect them.   

Today, the horseshoe crab is still found widely along the world's warmer coastlines although horseshoe crab populations in certain areas are suffering from high levels of water pollution and over-fishing.
		 	      

	      Ibis are a group of birds that are found all over the world, but more commonly in the more temperate regions of the southern hemisphere. Ibis are most well known for their long necks and beaks which help them to get food out of the water.  

The ibis is found inhabiting areas where there are large amounts of water. The ibis enjoys to eat aquatic animals so it prefers to be in areas such as swamps, marshes and wetlands where food is in abundance.  

There are roughly 30 different species of ibis found around the world, that vary in size and colour depending on the species. The ibis can vary in size from the tiny 5cm tall dwarf olive ibis to the giant ibis which to grow to more than a meter in height and inhabiting the remote forests of Cambodia and parts southern Laos.  

Ibis are generally very sociable birds that gather together in large flocks both to feed and to find a partner during the mating season. Despite their relatively large size, many species of ibis rest in the safety of the trees and not on the ground.  

Although the ibis is an omnivorous bird that eats both plants and animals, when there are plenty of aquatic species about, the ibis has more carnivorous diet. The ibis hunts fish, insects, small reptiles, frogs, small mammals and crabs,which the ibis picks out of the mud using it's long and pointed beak.  

Due to the relatively large size of the ibis, it has few natural predators besides large birds of prey that often steal the eggs of the ibis, or the young. Snakes are known to eat the ibis around the world, along with wild cats and foxes.  

During the mating season, the female ibis builds a nest in the trees that is made out of sticks and reeds. Ibis commonly nest close to a large amount of water such as a river or a lake, with other water-birds such as herons.  

The female ibis lays up to the 3 eggs which hatch after an incubation period of just a few weeks. The tiny ibis chicks are dependent on their mother for food, and develop quickly meaning that they leave the nest when they are about 6 weeks old.		 	      

	      The Humboldt penguin is a medium-sized species of penguin that is found breeding on the coasts of South America. The Humboldt penguin is similar in appearance to and closely related to other more northern penguin species including the African penguin, the magellanic penguin and the Galapagos penguin.  

The Humboldt penguin is one of the most northern-dwelling penguin species as it is found natively breeding on the coastlines of Peru and Chile. The Humboldt penguin is named after the cold water current that it spends most of it's time swimming in, which is itself named after the explorer, Alexander von Humboldt.   

Humboldt penguins are medium-sized penguins that can grow to heights of 70 cm or more. Also the Humboldt penguin is undoubtedly very similar in appearance a number of other penguin species, the Humboldt penguin can be easily identified by the pink, fleshy base at the end of their bills.  

All penguins are fantastic swimmers and the Humboldt penguin is no exception. Humboldt penguins use their powerful flippers and streamlined bodies, aided by their webbed feet to soar through the water. Humboldt penguin populations have been severely affected in their native regions due to increasing commercial fishing which leaves less food for the penguins to eat.  

The Humboldt penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the Humboldt penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish. Humboldt penguins can be at sea for days at a time whilst hunting and catch their food by diving deep into the water for minutes at a time.  

The Humboldt penguin has few predators on land, the main ones being large snakes and sea-birds that hunt their eggs . Large leopard seals hunt the Humboldt penguin in the water along with large sharks and killer whales. Humboldt penguin populations have also been seriously affected by human hunting, and are easily affected by changes in the water from oil spills and chemical pollutants.  

Humboldt penguins nest on beaches and rocky islands along the South American coast, where their range in Chile overlaps that of the closely related magellanic penguin (these sites are known as rookeries). The female Humboldt penguin lays two eggs which are incubated for just over a month and usually fledge (leave the nest) when they are between 2 and 3 months old.  

Today, the Humboldt penguin populations throughout the Pacific Ocean have been drastically declining over the past few years, with human interference (mainly habitat loss and over-fishing) being the main cause.
		 	      

	      There are 9 different species of howler monkey, found dispersed throughout the tropical jungles of South America. The howler monkey is one of the largest species of monkey found in South America with some howler monkeys growing to nearly a meter long.  

Despite their large size, howler monkeys weigh less than 10 kg which allows them to move with more agility through the high trees and lets the howler monkeys hang from branches by their tails when picking fruit.  

The howler monkey is thought to have to loudest call of all the primates in the world with some howler monkeys being able to project their howling voices for up to a few miles! Howler monkeys move in troops of around 18 howler monkeys and spend most of their time sleeping and grooming each other.  

The howler monkey is said to be one of the least active monkeys as the howler monkeys spends 80% of its time resting! The howler monkey generally lives to around 20 years old however, due to loss of habitat, the howler monkeys are finding it more difficult to find the food that they need.		 	      

	      Weasel Classification and Evolution
The Weasel is a small-sized carnivorous mammal that is found on every continent with the exception of Australia and it's surrounding islands, along with the more hostile polar regions. There are numerous Weasel species that all vary in size, colour and slightly with their behaviours depending on where in the world they live. The Common Weasel (also known as the European Weasel and the Least Weasel) is the most wide-spread and can be found across much of the northern hemisphere. These tiny but vicious predators are the smallest carnivorous mammals in the world growing to no more than 6 inches from their nose to the tip of their tail. Weasels belong to the mustelid family of carnivores and are most closely related to similar species such as Stoats which are larger in size and have a black tip at the end of their brown tail. Although Weasels are fairly common throughout much of their natural range, populations in certain areas have been affected by habitat loss and they are often seen as pests by farmers.  
Weasel Anatomy and Appearance
The Weasel has evolved to prey on small animals like no other carnivore as their long, slender bodies are perfectly suited for following mice into their burrows. Weasels have a small and narrow head which is not much thicker than their neck and along with their short legs and flexible spine means that they are able to easily manoeuvre themselves around in small, confined spaces. The Weasel has a sharply pointed snout and triangular head, small rounded ears and black eyes. Their coat is dark or light brown in colour on their head, back, legs and tail and white on their underside and moults twice a year from the darker winter coat to the flatter, lighter one in April, and again from the summer to the winter coat in August or September. This not only ensures that by November the Weasel is as warm as possible but in areas further north, individuals will often change from brown to white in colour so that they are camouflaged amongst the snow.  
Weasel Distribution and Habitat
Weasels are natively found in a variety of habitats such as woodlands, coniferous forest and on grassy plains in North America, Europe, Asia and in northern parts of Africa. Like their larger cousin the Stoat, Weasels have also been introduced to other countries (mainly as a form of pest control) like New Zealand and a number of other islands. However, like the introduction of a number of small predators to such isolated places, Weasels have had a profound effect on native wildlife which has evolved in the same way for millions of years without the threat of small, terrestrial carnivores. Weasels are opportunistic predators and can also be found in more urban areas and particularly close to farms where there is a varied and tempting supply of food. Despite their adaptability, Weasels are threatened by habitat loss in parts of their natural range.  
Weasel Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Weasel is a solitary animal that spends a great deal of it's life hunting for small mammals on the ground during both the day and night. Weasels are territorial animals that patrol home ranges that vary in size depending on the habitat and the availability of food and although the home ranges of males and females are known to overlap, the two tend to avoid each other except when mating. Within their territory, Weasels are known to make nests in crevices, tree roots and abandoned burrows which are lined with grass and fur and are where the Weasel is able to safely rest. Weasels are incredibly strong and powerful for their size and are able to catch and kill animals that are much larger than themselves, before carrying it back to their burrow. In order to make sure that they have the best view of their surroundings, Weasels are known to sit up on their hind legs exposing their white underside.  
Weasel Reproduction and Life Cycles
The only time Weasels will tolerate one another is when a male and female meet to mate. After a gestation period that lasts for around five weeks, the female Weasel gives birth to a litter of between one and seven kittens in her burrow. Young Weasels develop remarkably quickly and are not only weaned by the time they are two months old, but are also able to hunt small prey and will leave their mother within the next few weeks to establish a territory of their own. Although female Weasels tend to live for around three years, they are not able to successfully breed until their second and third years. Males however, will rarely reach their first birthday as their inclination to roam further in search of a mate means that they are often more vulnerable to numerous predators.   
Weasel Diet and Prey
The Weasel is a skilled and ferocious hunter that is able to actually enter the burrows of it's prey which is something that most predators are unable to do. By tracking small mammals using the tunnels that they make through the undergrowth and even under the snow, the Weasel is able to follow it's victim back to it's burrow and then catches it inside. Rodents such as Mice and Voles, along with Lemmings further north, make up the bulk of the Weasel's diet along with the occasional bird. They are also known to eat eggs and are able to kill animals larger than themselves such as Ducks and Rabbits. Although the Weasel may be the perfect shape to get into small burrows, their long body covers a relatively large surface area and so looses a lot of body heat. In order to ensure that they have enough energy, Weasels must eat around a third of their body weight every day to survive leading to them being such prolific hunters.  
Weasel Predators and Threats
Despite their fast and dexterous nature, the small size of Weasels means that they are preyed upon by a number of different predators throughout their natural range. Birds of Prey such as Owls, Hawks and Eagles that are able to spot them from high in the sky are the most common predators of the Weasel, along with Foxes and Snakes. Weasels are also preyed upon by domestic Cats and Dogs in areas where they exist close to Human settlements. Their opportunistic nature though also means that they are seen as pests by farmers and are often persecuted for stealing livestock, mainly poultry and eggs. In some areas around the world, Weasels are threatened by habitat loss and a lack of their prey species can also have devastating effects on local populations.  
Weasel Interesting Facts and Features
The Weasel is a carnivorous animal that has sharp, pointed canine teeth which are used for biting and shearing flesh. Although small, their teeth are incredibly sharp and are capable of delivering a fatal bite to animals more than double their size. Weasels have five toes on each of their paws that are tipped with small, non-retractable claws. Although these are primarily used for holding onto prey, their claws also help Weasels to burrow into the ground surprisingly quickly. Although males and females have similar coat colours and markings, males are actually substantially bigger with a body length a quarter longer than that of the female and weighing nearly double.   
Weasel Relationship with Humans
The ferocious and greedy nature of the Weasel has led to them getting a bad reputation amongst farmers particularly who trap and kill them to prevent further loss of livestock. They have however, been introduced to countries where they are not naturally found due to their versatile and dominant nature as a form of natural pest control. Along with a number of native British species, Weasels are often found as characters in books and appear in children's songs.  
Weasel Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Weasel is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future. Although they are considered wide-spread but rare in North America, they are common throughout Europe and Asia and introduced populations to other countries are also stable. Some isolated populations however are becoming more increasingly vulnerable.
		 	      

	      The tropicbird is a large species of sea bird found nesting on the warmer cliffs and islands that dot our oceans. Despite having been thought to be closely related to other large sea birds such as pelicans, boobies and frigatebirds, the tropicbird has been recently classified in a group of it's own.  

There are three different species of tropicbird found throughout the tropical Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. The exact range and location depends on the species of tropicbird, although all three species can be found in parts of all the major oceans.  

Tropicbirds are large-sized birds ans can grow to up to a meter in height. The three different tropicbird species are the red-billed tropicbird, the red-tailed tropicbird and the white-tailed tropicbird, all of which are generally white in colour with long tail feathers, and thin spindly legs.  

Tropicbirds are known to catch their prey by plunging into the surface of the water in order to snap up their dinner. Away from their breeding colonies, tropicbirds are generally solitary animals usually seen hunting on their own or in a pair.  

Like other sea birds, tropicbirds are carnivorous animals as they feed primarily on fish. The flying fish is a favourite meal for the tropicbird along with the occasional squid or crustacean. The method of hunting used by tropicbirds is known as plunge-diving, and is common practise for many sea birds.  

Due to their large size and airborne lifestyle, the tropicbird has few (if any) natural predators in it's environment. The primary predators of the tropicbird are small carnivores such as dogs, stouts and cats that have been introduced to areas by humans, and generally hunt the smaller tropicbird chicks.  

Tropicbirds nest in dips, crevices and holes on the ground in large breeding colonies, usually found on cliff tops or small tropical islands. The female tropicbird lays a single egg, which hatches after being incubated by both parents for about 6 weeks. Both the male and female tropicbirds then feed their chick together until it fledges (flies away from the nest), at around 3 months old.  

Today, tropicbird populations still seem to be thriving as they have not come under threat from drastic habitat loss. However, the arrival of non-native species to islands and increasing levels of water pollution, both have an affect on tropicbird populations.		 	      

	      The toucan is a  medium-sized bird native to the rain forests of central and South America and the Caribbean. There are more than 40 different species of toucan that inhabit the South American jungles today.  

The toucan is best known for it's large colourful beak that despite it's large size, is surprisingly light due to the fact that it is made of a substance called keratin (the same substance that makes up the nails and hair of many animals including humans) . The toucan's beak measures around half the toucans body length and is used for mating, feeding and defence purposes. The toucan's bill however, is not particularly strong and so it is used more to intimidate predators rather than to fight them off.   

The toucan only has small wings as it dwells in forests and therefore do not need to travel large distances. The toucan's wingspan is roughly the same length as the toucans body. Although the toucan is able to fly, the toucan is not very good at flying and cannot be in the air for very long. Instead of using their wings to get around, the toucan hops between the tree branches using it curved toes and sharp claws to get a good grip on the narrow surface that it holds on to.  

Toucans are omnivorous birds and feed on a mixture of plants and animals. Toucans eat fruits, berries, nuts and seeds along with eggs, insects and small mammals and reptiles. The primary source of food for the toucan is the fruit which grows on the trees where the toucan lives.  

Toucans have a number of predators in the South American jungle including humans, large birds of prey and wild cats. Weasels, snakes and rats tend to prey more on the eggs of the toucan rather than the toucan itself (many small animals are generally intimidated by the toucan's large bill).  

Although toucans are generally solitary when feeding, toucans often live in small groups of around 6 or 7 birds. The bright colours of the toucan gives the toucan camouflage in the colourful rainforest canopy. However, due to their bright colours, toucans are often captured and sold as pets with toucans being popular animals in the exotic pet trade.  

Toucans build their nest in trees in lay around 3 eggs. When the toucan chicks hatch, both the male toucan and the female toucan help to feed them and protect them from predators. The toucan chicks are born with small beaks that don't reach their full size for at least a few months.
		 	      

	       The Havanese is a breed of dog of the Bichon type, which do not shed.   

These dogs were developed from the now extinct Bichon Tenerife, which was introduced to the Canary Islands by the Spanish and later to other islands and colonies of Spain by sailors.  

 They are very playful dogs and good with older, more considerate children.		 	      

	      The tuatara is a small to medium sized reptile, that is found only on a few small islands surrounding New Zealand. Although the tuatara was once found inhabiting mainland New Zealand in large numbers, today the tuatara is nearly extinct from the mainland.  

Despite the lizard-like appearance of the tuatara, the tuatara is actually only a very distant relative of the lizard and the snake. The tuatara is believed to have broken off from lizards and snakes more than 200 million years ago!.  

Tuataras are generally green or brown in colour and can grow up to a meter in length, from the head of the tuatara to the tip of it's tail. The tuatara also has a crest that runs down the middle of it's body, which is particularly noticeable in male tuataras.  

The tuatara is a very unique reptile, with it's long tail and dinosaur-like crest, but the tuatara is has other features which make it stand out. Like all reptiles, the tuatara has excellent vision, but the tuatara also has a third eye on the top of it's head, it's use is still unknown. The tuatara is has two rows of teeth on it's upper jaw will line up either side of the teeth on the lower jaw.  

The tuatara is a nocturnal reptile meaning that the tuatara rests during the hours of daylight and comes out to hunt for food at night. During the day, the tuatara sleeps in a burrow which it digs with it's strong claws into the ground. The tuatara also prefers temperatures that would be too cold for many other reptiles, and the tuatara hibernates during the colder winters.  

The tuatara is a carnivorous animal, meaning that the tuatara only eats other animals in order to survive. The tuatara primarily preys on insects, beetles, spiders, birds eggs, frogs and small reptiles and mammals.   

Due to the fact that there are few real predators in New Zealand, the tuatara has no real native predators. However, since the introduction of cats, foxes, dogs and stouts, the tuatara populations have been wiped out in wide areas.  

Tuataras often live to be nearly 100 years old and so the tuatara only mates every 4 or 5 years. The female lays about a dozen leathery eggs which she digs into the ground. The eggs of the tuatara often take more than a year to hatch.		 	      

	      The Hercules beetle is one of the largest species of beetle in the world, and is natively found in the jungles of South America. The Hercules beetle is the largest and most well known of all of the rhinoceros beetles, a group of large beetles that are closely related to the famous scarab beetle.  

The Hercules beetle is found throughout the tropical jungles and rainforests of Central and South America, where the Hercules beetle spends the majority of it's time foraging through the leaf-litter on the forest floor in search of something to eat. The fallen debris also helps to hide this enormous insect as it moves about.  

There are thirteen known species of Hercules beetle found in the jungles of South America and the Hercules beetle was named for it's sheer size as some males have been known to reach nearly 7 inches in length. Although it is quite rare for these beetles to get quite so big, the average adult Hercules beetle is usually between four and fifteen centimetres long depending on the species.  

The most distinctive feature of the Hercules beetle has to be the enormous horn-like pincers which protrude from the forehead of the males. These horns can grow longer than the Hercules beetle's body and are mainly used for solving disputes with other male Hercules beetles. Female Hercules beetles do not have horns but their bodies are thought to be larger, but shorter than their male counterparts.  

The Hercules beetle is an omnivorous animal but it;'s diet both in it's larvae and adult stages, is primarily made up of decaying plant matter. Rotting wood is the favoured meal of the Hercules beetle, along with fruits and other plant matter and the occasional small insect.  

The Hercules beetle is said to be the strongest creature on earth for its size, able to carry 850 times its own body weight but these enormous insects are still hunted by numerous animals throughout the jungles of Central and South America. Bats, rats and birds are the main predators of the Hercules beetle along with reptiles and omnivorous mammals.  

The larval stage of the Hercules beetle will last one to two years, with the larva growing up to 4.5 inches in length and weighing up to 120 grams. Much of the life of the Hercules beetle larva is spent tunnelling through it's primary food source of rotting wood. After the larval period, transformation into a pupa, and moulting occur, with the Hercules beetle then emerging as an adult.   

Today, the Hercules beetle is threatened as much of it's natural habitat has been lost to deforestation or been affected by both air and water pollution. 
		 	      

	      The wallaby is a small to medium sized marsupial found on the Australian continent and its surrounding islands. Today there are a number of wild wallaby populations inhabiting other areas around the world where the wallaby has been introduced by humans.  

The wallaby is most closely related to Australia's largest marsupial, the kangaroo. The wallaby is generally smaller than a kangaroo although some wallaby individuals have been known to reach 6ft tall.  

There are roughly 30 different species of wallaby found in a variety of habitats throughout the Australian continent. The habitats of wallaby are so diverse that wallaby species are often named after their habitat. This includes the rock wallaby, the brush wallaby and the shrub wallaby. Other wallaby species such as the hare wallaby, are named after their size and appearance.  

The wallaby has strong and powerful back legs which the wallaby hops on in order to move about. The forearms of the wallaby are much smaller as they are mainly used for feeding and occasionally to help with balance. The tail of the wallaby is often as long as the wallaby's body and plays a critical role as a balance aid and is often used in self-defence.



Due to its relatively large size, the wallaby has few natural predators within its environment. Canines such as dingos and foxes are the main predators of the wallaby along with large reptiles such as crocodiles and snakes. The wallaby is able to defend itself against predators by hitting them with its long, powerful tail.



The wallaby is a marsupial meaning that the female wallaby has a pouch on her tummy in which to raise her young. The female wallaby gives birth to a single baby wallaby (occasionally twins), known as a joey, after a gestation period of only a month. The joey then crawls up into its mother's pouch, where it is cared for and nurtured until it is fully developed.

		
	    

Due to its relatively large size, the wallaby has few natural predators within its environment. Canines such as dingos and foxes are the main predators of the wallaby along with large reptiles such as crocodiles and snakes. The wallaby is able to defend itself against predators by hitting them with its long, powerful tail.  

The wallaby is a marsupial meaning that the female wallaby has a pouch on her tummy in which to raise her young. The female wallaby gives birth to a single baby wallaby (occasionally twins), known as a joey, after a gestation period of only a month. The joey then crawls up into its mother's pouch, where it is cared for and nurtured until it is fully developed.  		 	      

	      The Indochinese tiger (also known as the Corbett's tiger) is a subspecies of tiger, found throughout south-east Asia. The Indochinese tiger is now an endangered species and actually thought to be extinct in the Chinese wild today.  

The Indochinese tiger is found throughout Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Burma and Vietnam, although the Indochinese tiger's range is much smaller now than it once was and no Indochinese tigers have been seen in the wild in China since 2007.  

The Indochinese tiger is a medium sized species of tiger that is found inhabiting the secluded forests in the mountainous regions that generally lie along the borders between countries. This makes studying the Indochinese tiger very difficult so not much is known about them.  

The Malayan tigers found in Malaysia and parts of Thailand, were once thought to be the same as the Indochinese tiger and it was only recently that the two were classified as separate subspecies.  

The Indochinese tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting it's prey by stalking it until the Indochinese tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. Indochinese tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the Indochinese tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the Indochinese tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Indochinese tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Indochinese tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Indochinese tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Indochinese tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Indochinese tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the Indochinese tiger is considered to be an endangered species. Modern estimates suggest that the current wild Indochinese tiger population is between 1,200 and 1,800 individuals.		 	      

	      The wasp is medium sized flying insect that is found all around the world. The wasp is known for its black and yellow markings which means that some wasp and bee species are commonly confused.  

The wasp is found in all the countries in the world, on every continent with the exception of the polar regions. There are around 75,000 recognized species of wasp worldwide that grow to around 2/3 inch long.  

The wasp is most commonly known for its poisonous sting, that if a human is stung can often swell into a painful lump that takes a few days to soothe. Some people are allergic to wasp stings meaning the wasp sting can be fatal.  

Not all wasps can sting though but those that can often die once they have used their sting has it is joined onto their rear end of often becomes dislodged. When a wasp dies it releases a smell (called a pheromone) which warns the other wasps of danger and that it needs help.  

Like many other insect species, the wasp is social insect and many wasps, as many as 10,000, inhabit just one nest. The queen wasp is the only breeding female and she builds the nest from a papery substance that is made up of chewed wood and plants. Typically, the wasp only lives for 12 - 22 days.  

Wasps are omnivorous animals and therefore eat a mixture of plants and other animals. As with bees, the wasp prefers the sweeter plants and primarily eats nectar, fruits and honey. Wasps also eat insects and even large caterpillars.  

Despite their bright colours to deter predators, wasps are eaten by a number of different animals around the world including birds, amphibians, reptiles and various species of mammal.  

The queen wasp lays her eggs inside the nest which hatch in a number of days. When the wasp larvae hatch they are cared for by the other wasps in the nest and begin to hunt for food to bring back to the nest. Wasps are known to travel nearly half a kilometre away from the nest in search of food.		 	      

	      Uakari Classification and Evolution
The Uakari is a small species of monkey, native to the tropical rainforests of South America, where they tend to be found in moist jungle that is close to water. The Uakari is most well-known for it's naked face which most commonly ranges from pink to deep red in colour. There are four distinct species of Uakari, which are the Red (Bald) Uakari, the Black-Headed Uakari, the Ayres Black Uakari and the Neblina Uakari, all of which are very similar in appearance but differ somewhat in fur colour and location. The name Uakari is actually pronounced "wakari", with both this monkey's common name and it's scientific name thought to have derived from indigenous languages.   
Uakari Anatomy and Appearance
The Uakari is a small sized primate growing to an average of 45cm in length, and weighing around 3kg. The tail of the Uakari is very short relative to it's body size, and particularly small compared to those of other South American monkey species. The fur that covers the Uakari's body is long and coarse and tends to vary in colour, from red, to brown, to black, to white, depending on the species. The hairless face of the Uakari is their most distinctive feature, and can be deep red in colour in some individuals (although it generally ranges from pink to red, and can be paler or even black in some species). Their hands and feet are strong and agile with their opposable thumbs allowing the Uakari to hold onto fruits and tree branches.  
Uakari Distribution and Habitat
The Uakari is found inhabiting moist, tropical rainforest only in the Amazon River Basin, throughout Brazil and Peru, and in parts of southern Columbia. The separate species tend to be most easily characterised by their differing locations, and this is also true for the sub-species of the Bald Uakari. The White Uakari is found in north-western Brazil; the Golden Uakari on the Brazil-Peru border; the Red Uakari on the Brazil-Columbia border, with the Pale-Backed Red Uakari being found just a little further east. The Uakari is generally found in jungles that fringe fresh water sources such as streams, small rivers and lakes. They prefer part-flooded forest that is flooded either permanently or on a seasonal basis though, to areas of rainforest that line large rivers.  
Uakari Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike numerous other monkey species, the Uakari does not use it's short tail to hang from the trees or to help it when jumping, although it is still useful for balance. They spend much of their time high in the canopy and jump from tree to tree just using their strong arms and legs. Like many primates however, the Uakari is known to walk on all four limbs on it's rare trips down to the forest floor. The Uakari lives in troops in their jungle environment that usually contain between 10 and 30 members (although they can be up to 100 strong), which are males, females and their offspring. Although they spend much of their time together in the trees, when it comes to looking for food, the Uakari troop breaks up into smaller groups to forage.  
Uakari Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Uakari tends to breed between the months of October and May, when the females release and attractive scent to attract a mate. Once mated, the female Uakari gives birth to a single infant, after a gestation period that is still unknown, but she can do so every two years. The baby Uakari's are incredibly small and vulnerable at birth, clinging to their mother for their first few months, and feeding only on her milk. They are weaned at an average age of four months old when they begin to forage with the troop for soft fruits and seed pods. The Uakari tends to live for about 20 years in the wild, but population growth rates are not particularly fast as the females can't breed until they are three years old, and the males when they are six.  
Uakari Diet and Prey
Like many other primates, the Uakari has an omnivorous diet and therefore consumes a combination of both plant material and small animals. Despite this, the Uakari primarily eats fruit from the surrounding trees, along with leaves and Insects to supplement their diet. The Uakari gets the majority of it's food from high up in the canopy but will forage on the forest floor for seeds, roots and Lizards when food is scarce in the trees. Due to it's predominantly fruit-based diet, the Uakari plays a vital role in it' s native eco-system through the spreading of seeds throughout the forest.  
Uakari Predators and Threats
Living high up in the forest canopy, and occupying these areas in sometimes quite large groups, the Uakari has few predators with the biggest threat being Birds Of Prey. Other tree dwelling species such as Snakes and larger Monkeys also prey on the Uakari, and more particularly, their young. Humans are however, the Uakari's biggest threat as they have been hunted for food by the native people through much of their natural range. The rainforest habitat of the Uakari is also under threat due to high levels of logging for the timber industry throughout the Amazon Basin.   
Uakari Interesting Facts and Features
Despite not having an incredibly long tail to clutch onto branches with, the strong hind legs of the Uakari enable them to be able to jump staggering distances. Jumping on their hind legs between branches, the Uakari can jump up to 20 meters from tree to tree. The coloured, naked face of the Uakari is by far their most distinctive feature but the exact reasoning for this bright colouration is not really known. Theories range from mating reasons to being able to spot one another in the forest, but one thing is certain, which is the fact that the face of sick individuals becomes paler and so the skin colour actually acts as an indication of the animal's health. The faces of those Uakari kept in captivity, are also noticeably paler than they would have been in the wild.  
Uakari Relationship with Humans
As long as native tribes have inhabited the jungle of the Amazon Basin, people and the Uakari have been known to one another. Until recently, the Uakari was seen by many indigenous people as a stable source of food, and they have been regularly hunted by them primarily using poison-tipped darts. Many were also captured by local people to be kept as domestic pets or even sold on. The Uakari is now also under threat from Humans, mainly from deforestation either for commercial reasons or to expand already growing human settlements. Enormous stretches of the Amazon are still cut down on a daily basis, meaning that many of the native species (and people) lose their homes.  
Uakari Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, although the different Uakari species are all classified by the IUCN slightly differently, they are generally considered to be animals that are Vulnerable in their natural environment. Hunting by indigenous people and habitat loss to logging, are thought to be the two main reasons for their ever-declining population numbers, as they are now found in smaller and more isolated pockets of their natural habitats. 		 	      

	      The jackal is a medium sized member of the dog family, originally found in Africa, Asia and southeast Europe. There are four main species of jackal with these jackal species being the golden jackal, the side-striped jackal, the black-backed jackal and the Ethiopian wolf jackal. The golden jackal is the most northernly species of jackal and can be found as far east as Burma in Southeast Asia.  

Jackals are generally found in packs of roughly between 10 and 30 jackal individuals. Jackals use their large group numbers to their advantage and work together in a similar way to a wolf pack to both occasionally hunt for food but more so that the jackals can protect one another.   

Jackals are small canines that have adapted to hunting small mammals, birds and reptiles. Some species of jackal have even been known to eat poisonous snakes. Jackals are carnivorous mammals and jackals will often scavenge the remains of kills made by other larger predators.  

The jackal is a  nocturnal mammal that can easily maintain speeds of 16km an hour for long periods of time. Although the jackal belongs to a jackal pack, jackals often prefer to hunt alone or with only one other jackal. This means that the jackals tend to have a higher chance of ambushing their prey as if the jackals regularly hunted in large groups, the jackals would have less success in being stealthy and silent.  

Although the majority of the diet of the jackal is made up of meat, many jackal individuals (particularly those jackals living in the tropics of Southeast Asia) will often eat plant matter if no meat can be found.   

Jackals are very territorial animals and jackals have no hesitation in defending their marked territory. Jackals have a wide range of vocal sounds that are specific to each jackal family meaning that is rare for families of competing jackals to come into accidental contact with one another.  

Jackals inhabit crevices in rocks and dens made by other animals in order to keep the jackals cool while they sleep. Although many jackal individuals live a nocturnal existence, particularly those jackals that inhabit areas close to humans, some jackals in more remote areas are slightly more diurnal and will be out hunting during the cooler times of the day. 
		 	      

	      The tetra is a small and colourful fish native to the freshwater rivers and streams of South America and Africa. The tetra is one of the most well known and popular freshwater tropical fish kept in tanks and aquariums all around the world.  

There are around 150 known species of the tetra fish native to the clearwater streams and slow-moving rivers of both Africa South America. There are more than 100 different species of the tetra in Africa alone and even more in South America. The two groups of fish are classified as the characidaes (the tetra of South America) and the alestiidaes (the tetra of Africa).  

Tetras are very commonly found in aquariums around the world and due to the hardiness of the tetra, they are easy fish to keep. The neon tetra is among the most commonly bred commercial species of tetra out of all of the tetra species.  

The tetra is an omnivorous animal eating a mixture of both plant and animal matter. The tetra primarily feeds on algae and brine shrimp and picks out the larger food particles that are part of the plankton in the water. Tetras also eat small invertebrates such as worms.  

Due to their small size, tetras are prey to many predators in their watery world. Larger fish, eels, crustaceans and invertebrates all prey on the tiny tetra which is often easy to spot due to it's brightly coloured body. When a tetra feels it is in in danger, it will often try to find something to hide in or travel into water that is slightly darker so that the tetra is harder to spot.  

Tetras live in schools of many tetra individuals, sometimes in the hundreds, in order to help to protect each other and to find food. Tetras kept in tanks should be kept with at least 6 or 7 other tetras. Male tetras tend to be smaller in size than the female tetras.  

Tetras breed in pairs that spawn together for about a year. Female tetras lay an average of 130 eggs usually on a leaf in the water, which are then fertilised by the male tetra. The baby tetra are called fry and hatch within a couple of days.		 	      

	      Vampire Bat Classification and Evolution
The Vampire Bat is a small species of Bat, native to the tropics of Central and South America. There are three recognised sub-species of Vampire Bat, all of which are in a genus of their own despite their obvious similarities. The Common Vampire Bat, the Hairy-Legged Vampire Bat and the White-Winged Vampire Bat are all closely related and share the same unique feeding habits, as they are the only known mammals that feed entirely on blood. Over time, Vampire Bats have perfectly adapted to the consumption of their only food source, with a leaf-like heat sensor on the end of their nose which detects where the warm blood is flowing closest to the skin.  
Vampire Bat Anatomy and Appearance
The Vampire Bat is quite a small animal, with it's body rarely growing larger than the size of a human thumb. It's wings are long, finger-like bones that are covered in a thin layer of skin, with a thumb claw that pokes out of the front and is used for grip when clambering about on their host. Vampire Bats have dark brown to grey furry bodies with a lighter underside, and strong limbs which enable them to crawl about on the ground with ease. As with other Bats, Vampire Bats use echolocation in order to determine their surroundings. When flying, they produce high-pitched sounds that bounce of the objects in the area, and it is this bounced-back sound that allows the Bat to figure out where things are around them (it is so high-pitched that it cannot be heard by people).  
Vampire Bat Distribution and Habitat
The Vampire Bat is found throughout the South American continent from Mexico to the tip of Argentina. Vampire Bats are found in both tropical and subtropical regions and can adapt to living in both humid and dry climates. Many Bats are nocturnal and the Vampire Bat is no exception, spending the daylight hours roosting in hollow trees, caves, mines and even derelict buildings in colonies that can be more than 1,000 strong. Although other Bat species are known to nest in the same places as the Vampire Bats, it is thought that the separate species tend to keep their distance from one another to avoid conflict.   
Vampire Bat Behaviour and Lifestyle
After sleeping upside in the darkness all day, Vampire Bats emerge when the moon appears in order to hunt for food. Despite being incredibly strong fliers, the design of their arms and legs means that they can also move about on the ground with surprising speed and agility. Vampire Bats fly about a meter above ground in search of a warm-blooded animal, and once found, they land close to it. The Vampire Bat then crawls up to it's generally sleeping victim, before biting it and feeding on the flowing blood. Vampire Bats tend to be solitary hunters but roost together in colonies that usually contain around 100 individuals, and contain alpha males and their harems of around 6 females, and their young.   
Vampire Bat Reproduction and Life Cycles
Vampire Bats mate all year round and are known to have a fairly long gestation period in comparison to other species of small tropical Bat. After between 3 and 4 months, the female Vampire Bat gives birth to a single baby which she cares for until it is weaned at between 3 and 5 months of age (those bat babies born in captivity are weaned noticeably later, when they are 9 months old). As with other mammals, the young vampire bats feed on their mother's milk until they are old enough to consume an adult diet, and will not reach their full adult weight for roughly a year. Female Vampire Bats do appear to be very caring mothers, known to care for and adopt young orphans in the colony. Vampire Bats can live for up to 12 years in the wild, although captive individuals have been known to nearly reach the age of 20.  
Vampire Bat Diet and Prey
Vampire Bats use echolocation, sound and smell in order to find their prey, which can be up to 10,000 times the size of this tiny predator, and it is because of this that Vampire Bats have evolved to taking some precautions when feeding. Firstly, the never land on their prey but inside land on the ground close by and crawl up to it, where they are able to detect veins close to the skin's surface with precision, thanks to their heat-sensing nose. Using it's set of sharp front teeth, the Vampire Bat then bites it's host, immediately jumping back in case the animal wakes up. Contrary to popular belief, Vampire Bats do not suck the blood of their victims, but inside lap it up using their grooved tongue as it flows out of the wound. Chemicals in the Vampire Bat's saliva both stop the blood from clotting and numb the area of skin around the bite to prevent the host from feeling anything.  
Vampire Bat Predators and Threats
Despite being a unique and versatile predator itself, the Vampire Bat is still prey to other animals, that can hunt the bat in the air when it comes out to hunt at night. Large, sharp-eyed Birds Of Prey such as Hawks and Eagles are the most common predators of the Vampire Bat, along with Snakes that hunt the Bats in their dark caverns while they are sleeping during the day. Humans though are one of their biggest threats, mainly farmers that are known to poison the Bats that commonly feed on their livestock. These poisons (known as vampiricides) are specially designed to spread throughout the whole colony through social grooming, killing hundreds of individuals at a time.  
Vampire Bat Interesting Facts and Features
Vampire Bats feed exclusively on the blood of warm-blooded animals, drinking up to a teaspoon (25ml) of blood per 30 minute feed. Once having feasted on their host however, the Bats are then so bloated that they can barely fly with their weight almost having doubled. It is said that in just one year, an average sized Vampire Bat colony can drink the blood of 25 Cows, but their metabolism is so fast that they must feed every two days to ensure their survival (blood is very nutritious containing high amounts of water). The nearly 20 teeth in the Bat's mouth are mostly redundant due to their liquid diet, apart from the set of razor-sharp incisors at the front used for biting flesh.   
Vampire Bat Relationship with Humans
The vampire Bat is one of the only Bat species that is considered a pest by Humans. Farmers particularly have a very strained relationship with these flying mammals, that feed on their sleeping Cows under the cover of night. Even though the amount of blood consumed by the Bat is minimal and does not harm the animal, it is the bite itself that can cause problems becoming infected or diseased. Farmers have not only attempted to poison entire colonies but are also known to destroy their daytime lairs using dynamite, often eliminating thousands of Vampire Bat individuals, and a number of other species. Fictional tales of Vampire Bats and their overly-exaggerated feeding habits has also increased the superstition about them.  
Vampire Bat Conservation Status and Life Today
All three subspecies of Vampire Bat have been listed as being of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the wild in the immediate future, due to the fact that they are widespread and feed on a variety of warm-blooded animals. Deforestation of their natural habitats along with persistent Human efforts to eradicate who colonies at a time however, have led to population declines in certain areas. Scientists have also discovered though that the anti-coagulant found in the Bat's saliva, proves to more effective at preventing blood clotting than any medicine, meaning that this could have significant positive implications for patients with strokes or heart attacks.

		 	      

	      Hamsters are thought to be originally from the desert lands of east Asia, including hamster species such as the common Syrian hamster and the miniature Russian dwarf hamster. Hamsters in the wild tend to spend most of their time digging and foraging for food.  

Today, hamsters are commonly kept as pets with the average household hamster getting to around 2 or 3 years old. Hamsters are thought to be easy first pets to keep for children due to the hamsters quite nature, small size and calm temperament.  

Hamsters are solitary animals. Some types of hamster are so solitary that they will fight to the death if more than one hamster is in the same territory.  

Hamsters in the wild are nocturnal animals as the hamsters spend the daytime hours in burrows underground in order for the hamster to avoid the many predators within the natural environment of the hamster.The hamster will leave the safety of its underground burrow in the night when it is dark and the temperature is cooler in order to search for food.  

Hamsters use their large cheek pouches to store food that the hamster finds so that the hamster can take the food back to the stash in the underground burrow. Nuts, seeds, vegetables, grass, fruits and berries are all part of the natural diet of the hamster.  

There are more than 20 different species of hamster found in the wild (and even more in the commercial pet market). The Russian dwarf hamster are among the smallest species of hamster with adult Russian dwarf hamsters rarely growing to more than 10cm in length. The more common Syrian hamster is the largest species of hamster and some Syrian hamster individuals have been known to grow to nearly 30cm long, although the average size of a Syrian hamster is normally around 20cm.  

Many species of hamster are very fast at running so that they are able to escape from oncoming predators. Due to the shape and size of the hind feet of the hamster, hamsters are often able to run as quickly backwards as they can forwards, which the allows the hamsters to escape easily in their burrows.  

Hamsters inhabit semi-desert regions around the world with the soft ground providing an excellent material for the hamster to burrow in. The burrow of a hamster often consists of many tunnels and chambers, including separate areas for the hamster to eat and sleep in.   

 Hamster Foot Facts 

The hamster has two front feet that are shaped more like hands and the hamster uses its front feet to hold and forage for food.
The two back feet of the hamster are slightly larger than the front feet and are used to balance and support the hamster when it sits up.
The delicate shape of the back feet of the hamster enable the hamster to run not only forwards but also backwards so that the hamster can easily escape into burrows.
The hands of the hamster are well adapted to their purpose as they have five toes on each hand, where the feet of the hamster only have three.
Hamsters have soft pads on the bottom of their paws that help them to run smoothly, and long nails on the end of each toe which helps the hamster to grip.

  
 Hamster Teeth Facts 

As hamsters are rodents, their teeth are growing all the time so hamsters must grind their teeth down to stop them from getting too long by gnawing on something hard.
Hamsters have 16 teeth that continuously grow to give the hamster an advantage if it loses a tooth.
Unlike many other species of animal baby hamsters are born with a full set of teeth and keep the same teeth for their whole lives.
Hamsters have cheek pouches that they store food in when they are out foraging and empty their pouches later on so that they can eat their stored food.
A hamster is able to carry its own bodyweight in food in its cheeks and takes then creates secret stashes of food to ensure that the hamster never runs out.

		 	      

	      The grizzly bear is a sub-species of the brown bear, also known as the Silvertip Bear. The grizzly bears live in the uplands of western North America, and each female bear produces a litter of young roughly every other year.   

Grizzly bears can often be seen to congregate together around streams in the salmon season to get the best catch. The grizzly bear is generally a solitary mammal.  

It is estimated that less than 10% of grizzly bears make it into full adulthood. While the grizzly bear has no natural predators, the bears have been hunted by humans almost to extinction.   

The grizzly bear has a bad reputation amongst humans and animals alike, as the grizzly bear is known to be aggressive and very territorial. Due to the grizzly bears size, there are no known North American mammals that would naturally prey on the grizzly bear, making the grizzly bear an extremely dominant predator.  

Female grizzly bears that have grizzly bear cubs will often be extremely wary of other animals and the grizzly bear mother will often keep her grizzly bear cubs in quieter areas until the grizzly bear cubs are old enough and big enough to defend themselves, at which point the grizzly bear cubs will generally venture away from their grizzly bear mother in order to begin a life of roaming themselves. The grizzly bear mothers however are incredibly protective of their young and will generally always attack any animal that she believes is a danger to her young family.  

Male grizzly bears can grow to a height of more than 3 meters tall when standing on their hind legs, with female grizzly bears being around 40% smaller. As with the brown bear (from which the grizzly bear is thought to have come from), the grizzly bear has a humped look at the top of the grizzly bears back, which is the build of the enormous muscle that provides the bears with the strength they need, mainly when digging.  

Although it is generally believed that the grizzly bear is a carnivore, grizzly bears, as with most other bear species, are in fact omnivores as the grizzly bear diet consists of both plants and animals. The grizzly bear is most famously known for its love of salmon and can often be seen in large groups around the areas where the salmon spawn. The grizzly bears are still very territorial though but appear to stay out of each others way on these occasions as there is always plenty of fish to go round.
		 	      

	      Vervet Monkey Classification and Evolution
The Vervet Monkey is a medium to large sized monkey that is primarily found in Eastern Africa. The Vervet Monkey is thought to be a species of Grivet, another tree-dwelling African monkey that has very similar characteristics to the Vervet, along with the Malbrouck which is considered by some to be a sub-species of Vervet Monkey. These three animals are very closely related but they tend to inhabit territories in slightly different locations and are thought to rarely come into contact with one another. There are currently six recognised sub-species of the Vervet Monkey that are generally classified depending on their location, although there is some difference in colouration between them.   
Vervet Monkey Anatomy and Appearance
The Vervet Monkey grows to an average of 50cm tall, with a tail that is often longer than the body itself and has a black tip. Their fur tends to be grey or olive in colour (depending on the species) and is lighter on their underside. The hands and feet of the Vervet Monkey are black, along with their ears and face which has a white band above it and is also framed by white cheek tufts. The Vervet Monkey has long arms and legs which are about the same length to allow this species to walk on all fours when on the ground with ease, and actually makes them quite speedy when running. Males tend to be larger than females and are easily distinguished by their bright blue testicles.  
Vervet Monkey Distribution and Habitat
The Vervet Monkey is found south of the Sahara and is widespread across Eastern Africa. They are also found in parts of southern and western Africa from Uganda to Ghana but their location is generally dependant on the sub-species. The Vervet Monkey inhabits savanna, woodland and forests that tend to be close to water, preferring acacia forests that line rivers and lakes. Vervet Monkeys can also be found in mountainous regions up to 1,300 feet providing that there is an adequate supply of both food and water to sustain the population. They are rarely found in more extreme environments such as deserts and rainforests as these regions simply do not have everything that Vervet Monkeys require to successfully survive.  
Vervet Monkey Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Vervet Monkey is an arboreal monkey which means that it spends most of it's time in the safety of the trees. Although they do venture down to the ground in search of both food and water, Vervet Monkeys rarely go further than 450 meters from the trees, which helps to protect them from predators. They are diurnal animals spending the days foraging for food and then rest at night. The Vervet Monkey is a very sociable animal inhabiting territories in troops that can contain between 10 and 50 individuals, depending on the location and how ample the food supply is. These troops are comprised of adult females and their young, with males wandering between different troops to both socialise and mate.  
Vervet Monkey Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Vervet Monkey is not usually able to reproduce until they are about five years old, although their age of sexual maturity is known to vary slightly and may be dependent on how much food they have access too. After about 5 and a half months, females give birth to a single infant which is cleaned by it's mother at birth, and clings to her stomach during the first week or so. Vervet Monkey babies quickly develop strong social bonds with other monkeys and are known to begin interacting and playing with them by the time they are a month old. They have pink faces and black fur and don't tend to develop their adult colouration until they are a few months old. Vervet Monkey offspring suckle on their mother's milk until they are nearly four months old and start to eat softer vegetation, but they are not fully weaned until they are about a year old.  
Vervet Monkey Diet and Prey
The Vervet Monkey is an omnivorous animal, meaning that they consume both plant matter and other animals in order to get the nutrition that they need to survive. Leaves and young shoots make up the bulk of the Vervet Monkey's diet, along with tree bark, flowers and fruits that can also be found in the trees surrounding them. On the ground Vervet Monkeys forage for roots, bulbs, seeds and grasses and are also known to supplement their diet with insects, eggs, rodents, birds and other small animals. Like many other monkey species, the Vervet uses it's incredibly dexterous hands in order to collect food, with it's long tail aiding in balancing on the tree branches.   
Vervet Monkey Predators and Threats
The Vervet Monkey has few predators whilst it remains in the safety of the trees with larger species of Eagle being their most common threat. On the ground however, they are preyed upon by a number of Africa's large predators including felines like the Leopard, Serval and Caracal, along with large reptiles such as Pythons, and Crocodiles close to water. Never venturing too far from the trees means that the Vervet Monkey can quickly make it back up into safety, and it's ability to run at speed allows them to try and escape more quickly. Although Vervet Monkeys generally only make chattering sounds, they are known to scream and whistle to alert other members of the troop that they are in danger.  
Vervet Monkey Interesting Facts and Features
Despite the fact that the Vervet Monkey tends to reach sexual maturity after a number of years in the wild, sexual maturity in captivity tends to occur much sooner at an average age of two years old. They are incredibly well adapted to their surrounding environments as they can jump and climb well when in the trees and are pretty speedy on the ground, along with being excellent swimmers. Younger females in the troop that are not yet mature, often show a keen interest in the offspring of adult females and assist them with grooming and caring for their young. They are also known to love to hold them, making it not wonder that social bonds within the troop particularly between relatives, often last for life.  
Vervet Monkey Relationship with Humans
The Vervet Monkey has adapted well to the growing urban environments that have replaced it's historical habitat, but they are sometimes seen as pests in these areas. Vervet Monkeys are known to raid fields of crops, along with stealing food and other items that they find and are rarely caught by Humans due to their speed and agility, both on the ground and in the trees. Although they have been affected by growing Human settlements, it is also the destruction of their natural ranges mainly for agriculture, that is affecting the Vervet Monkey populations. They have also been introduced onto two of the West Indian Islands, which are the islands of St. Kitts and Barbados.   
Vervet Monkey Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Vervet Monkey has been listed as a species that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the immediate future, as the species is widespread and is found in a variety of different habitats. Although they have also adapted well to city-life, they are often killed by electricity pylons and traffic along with being used in traditional medicines, and caught as bushmeat. 		 	      

	      The tortoises is a land-dwelling reptile closely related to the tortoise's marine cousin, the sea turtle. The tortoise is found in many countries around the world but particularly in the southern hemisphere where the weather is warmer for most of the year.  

Tortoises have a hard outer shell to protect them from predators but the skin on the legs, head and belly of the tortoise is quite soft so the tortoise is able to retract it's limbs into it's shell to protect itself. The tortoise's shell can range in size from a few centimetres to a couple of metres, depending on the species of tortoise.  

Most species of tortoise have a herbivorous diet eating grasses, weeds, flowers, leafy greens and fruits.Tortoises generally have a lifespan similar to the lifespan of humans although some species of tortoise, like the giant tortoise, have known to be over 150 years old.  

There are many different species of tortoise around the world that vary in size, colour and diet. Most species of tortoise however are diurnal but in places where it is very hot throughout the day, tortoises will often venture out to find food in the cooler dawn and dusk periods.  

Female tortoises dig burrows, known as nesting burrows, in which the female tortoise lays her eggs. The female tortoise can lay between one and thirty eggs at a time but the number is generally around 10 and only a handful of the babies tend to survive as tortoise babies are very vulnerable to attack by all kinds of predators.  

Once the female tortoise has laid her eggs she leaves the nesting burrow. The eggs hatch between 2 and 4 months later and the baby tortoises are able to start venturing out in search of food when they are about a week old. The size of the baby tortoise and the egg, depends on the size of the mother tortoise.  

Today, a number of tortoise species (mainly the smaller species of tortoise) are kept as household pets. The pet tortoise ideally prefers to live in the garden or part of a vegetable patch where there is lots of food for the tortoise to eat. Pet tortoises should have a diet similar to what it would be if the tortoise was in the wild and should not be fed other foods such as cat or dog food.  

Most species of tortoise, but not all, hibernate during the colder winter months particularly those species of tortoise in the Northern Hemisphere. Tortoises must have an empty stomach before they hibernate and therefore tend to go through a period of starvation beforehand. Tortoises come out of hibernation when the weather begins to get warmer again.		 	      

	       Irish Wolfhounds are sweet-tempered, patient, generous, thoughtful and can be trusted with children.  

 Dignified and willing, they are unconditionally loyal to their owner and family. Not a guard dog by nature, but may be a deterrent simply due to his size.  

 They tend to greet everyone as a friend, so use of them as watch dogs is not recommended.		 	      

	      The western gorilla is one of two gorilla sub-groups found on the African continent (the other being the eastern gorilla). The western gorilla is the most numerous species gorilla and also the larger out of the two.   

The western gorilla is found inhabiting the tropical jungles and forests of western and central Africa, along with lowland swamps and secondary forests. All western gorillas are now considered to be critically endangered as much of their natural habitat has now been deforested or taken over by humans.   

There are two separate sub-species of western gorilla which are the western lowland gorilla and the cross river gorilla. Although only slightly different in appearance, the two western gorilla species are distinguished by there differing skull and tooth sizes.  

The western gorilla is one of the great apes, a group that includes orang-utans, gorillas, humans and chimpanzees. As with the other great apes, the western gorilla has a number of features which makes living in the jungle a bit easier, including having opposable thumbs which come in handy when the western gorilla is peeling fruit.  

The western gorilla is an omnivorous animal, but the majority of it's diet is made up of eating fruit which the western gorilla is known to travel vast distances through the forests to find. The western gorilla also eats leaves, nuts and berries, along with insects and occasionally small animals such as lizards and rodents. The western gorilla has also been observed using basic tools in the wild in order to more effectively gather food.   

Due to it's large size, the western gorilla has few real predators in it's native African forests, with large cats such as leopards and the odd crocodile being the only real natural threat to the western gorilla. The biggest threat to the western gorilla is habitat loss caused by deforestation and also being hunted by humans. Parts of the western gorilla's territory has also been taken over by civil unrest in recent years, which, along with poaching, has had a truly devastating affect on wild populations.  

The western gorilla tends to live in groups which are led and protected by the alpha male. The alpha male western gorilla also mates with the females in his group, producing generally single offspring, known as babies. The western gorilla babies remain with their mother until they are a few years old and become independent.  

Today, all western gorillas are critically endangered species but there are thought to be 95,000 western lowland gorillas remaining in the wild, significantly more than their cross river gorilla cousins, whose numbers in the wild are thought to to as low as 300 individuals.
		 	      

	      Highland cattle (also known as the hairy cow) are an old Scottish breed of cow, bred primarily for their beef. Highland cattle are often bred for cattle shows, and some highland cattle can win many prizes due to the incredible condition of the highland cattle individuals.  

The highland cattle are famous for their long haired coats which help the hairy cows to cope with the harsh conditions of the Scottish Highlands. The highland cattle inhabit areas of Scotland close to the Arctic circle meaning that the highland cattle have adapted to endure the most uncompromising conditions.   

Highland cattle originally come from Scotland. Highland cattle can now be found in Europe, North America and Australia, where the highland cattle are all commonly farmed for their meat but some people also use the long hair of the highland cattle.  

Highland cattle have adapted to living in such harsh terrains as highland cattle have a large, strong build and a thick double layer of long orange hair. Highland cattle also have two horns on the tops of their heads which the highland cattle use to dig through thick snow to find the vegetation that lies underneath and the highland cattle also use their horns in order to defend themselves from oncoming predators and other rival highland cattle.  

The highland cattle are also extremely adept at foraging for food and the patience and skill of the highland cattle means that the highland cattle can often be found grazing on steep, mountainous slopes in the Scottish highlands. Highland cattle are herbivorous mammals and therefore only eat plant matter, mainly grasses. Highland cattle are also known to eat leaves from low growing trees and shrubs and the highland cattle are also rather partial to the odd flower!  

Due to the sheer size of highland cattle, other than humans highland cattle have very few natural predators in their wild habitat. Depending on the location of highland cattle, packs of wolves are one of the main threats to grazing highland cattle and those highland cattle inhabiting the plains in North America, are also in fear of being hunted by larger animals such as mountain lions, cougars and bears. Coyotes in North America are also a threat to the young and weak highland cattle calves but it is too dangerous for the coyote to hunt a highland cattle calf unless the young highland cattle has been separated from the group.
		 	      

	      The gila monster is a large species of lizard that is natively found in parts of the southern United States and northern Mexico. The gila monster is also one of only two species of venomous lizard found in North America.  

The gila monster is found roaming through a range of habitats throughout the drier regions of central America. Gila monsters tend to inhabit areas that are more sheltered such as shrublands, woodlands, forests and semi-deserts.  

In the same way that a camel's hump, the tail of the gila monster acts as a fat storage facility in order to help the gila monster to survive more successfully in such arid conditions. When the gila monster eats and therefore replenishes its fat supply, the tail of the gila monster swells in size and becomes smaller again as its body uses up the fat.  

The gila monster has short powerful legs, and long claws which it mainly uses for digging. Gila monsters spend nearly all of their time in burrows underground, either ones they have dug themselves or more likely, those stolen from other animals.  

The gila monster is one of only two venomous lizard species that are found in North America. The gila monster has venom glands below its teeth on the bottom jaw which is released when the gila monster bites its prey. The gila monster then waits while its venom kills the animal, before finally eating it.  

The gila monster is a carnivorous animal and therefore has a purely animal-based diet. Bird and reptile eggs make up the majority of the gila monster's diet, along with insects, frogs, small mammals and reptiles, including smaller lizards.  

Despite its large size, the gila monster is a fairly slow-moving animal meaning that it is preyed upon by a number of predators in its natural environment. Coyotes and humans (who often kill the gila monster claiming self-defence), are the main predators of the gila monster along with birds of prey and small ground-dwelling animals that hunts the eggs of the gila monster.  

After mating, the female gila monster lays between 2 and 15 eggs which she buries underground. The incubation period for the gila monster eggs is one of the longest of all reptiles, as they can take up to a year to hatch. 		 	      

	      The Indian star tortoise is a medium sized species of tortoise found in the dry and arid forests of both Indian and Sri Lanka. The Indian star tortoise is named for the star-like patterns on it's high-domed shell which are distinctive to both species of star tortoise (the other being the critically endangered Burmese star tortoise, found in the deciduous forests of Burma).  

As it's name suggests the Indian star tortoise is found across the Indian sub-continent, more specifically, the Indian star tortoise is found in the central and Southern parts of India, in West Pakistan and in Sri Lanka. The Indian star tortoise is most commonly found in semi-arid scrub forest, along with thorny and grassland habitats, where there is plenty of vegetation both to hide in and munch on.  

Due to the very distinctively marked, and highly rounded shell of the Indian star tortoise, this species of tortoise has become a popular pet in the world's exotic pet trade. Indian star tortoises are of a medium size, with the average adult rarely growing to more than 30 cm in length. The protective shell of the Indian star tortoise also acts in the same to the shells of other tortoise species, allowing the Indian star tortoise to draw it's vulnerable head and limbs into it's shell for protection.  

The attractive star-like patterns on the shell of the Indian star tortoise actually help the tortoise to blend into it's surroundings more easily, as well as looking very pretty. The distinctively marked shell of the Indian star tortoise, actually breaks up the hard line of it's shell when it is grazing, making this reptile not so obvious to passing predators.  

Like many other species of tortoise around the world, the Indian star tortoise is a herbivorous animal that has a purely vegetarian diet. The Indian star tortoise browses in the dry forests of the Indian sub-continent in search of a wide variety of plant life from leaves, to fruits and berries and numerous different species of flower that are found growing in such arid environments.  

Despite it's hard and protective outer shell, the Indian star tortoise is successfully preyed upon by a number of other animals in their native habitats. Large birds of prey and other reptiles such as snakes are the most common predators of the Indian star tortoise along with humans that have both hunted the tortoise for food, as well capturing them for the exotic pet trade and moving in on their native habitats.  

The Indian star tortoise begins its mating season with the coming of the monsoon, so the exact time is dependent on the area in which the individual lives. Female Indian star tortoise lay an average of 7 eggs per clutch although, this can be as many as 10. The Indian star tortoise is known to be difficult to be breed in captivity and so should only be attempted by experience breeders.  

Today, the Indian star tortoise has been listed as Least concern which means that allow this species is not under immediate threat from extinction, population numbers are falling across much of the Indian star tortoise's native range thanks to habitat loss and the introduction of other predators to their natural habitats.
		 	      

	      The gentoo penguin is a medium-sized species of penguin that is found on the rocky islands of the sub-Antarctic Ocean. Gentoo penguins are most easily distinguished by the white "bonnet-like" marking across the top of their heads, and are most closely related to the Adelie and Chinstrap penguins which belong to the same group.  

The gentoo penguin breeds on many sub-Antarctic islands, with the main colonies found on the Falkland Islands, South Georgia and the Kerguelen Islands. Smaller populations of the gentoo penguin are also found on Macquarie Island, Heard Islands, South Shetland Islands and the Antarctic Peninsula. The total breeding population of the gentoo penguin is estimated to be over 300,000 pairs.  

The gentoo penguin is the third largest species of penguin in the world behind the king penguin and the emperor penguin, with adult gentoo penguins reaching heights of up to 80cm in the southern parts of their range. The gentoo penguins found further north, are on average, slightly heavier and taller than their southern counterparts.  

Like other penguin species, the gentoo penguin has had to adapted to inhabiting very harsh conditions and having to get all of it's food from the freezing ocean. Gentoo penguins use their wings to propel them through the water and are thought to be the fastest swimming of all penguin species, able to reach speeds of nearly 30mph in the water.  

The gentoo penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the gentoo penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish.  

Due to the fact that they inhabit quite uncompromising regions, gentoo penguins have no natural land-based predators. However, larger marine animals that also inhabit the freezing waters of the Antarctic Ocean will prey on these water-based birds, with leopard seals, sharks, humans and killer whales being the main predators of the gentoo penguin.  

On average, the gentoo penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female gentoo penguin lays two eggs which are incubated by both parents for just over a month months, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The gentoo penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are around three months old.  

Today, the gentoo penguin is a near threatened animal as they are easily affected by changes in the water, both pollution and temperature. Gentoo penguin populations in some areas have also been depleted through human hunting.
		 	      

	      The vulture is a large, carnivorous bird that is most well known for its scavenging nature. The vulture is one of the few types of bird that is found distributed so widely around the world, as vultures are found on every continent excluding the Antarctic and Australia and the islands that surround it.  

Different species of vultures of firstly classified into two groups, the old world vultures and the new world vultures. There are thought to be nearly 30 different species of vulture that are found worldwide.  

The old world vultures are found in Asia, Europe and Africa with these species of vulture thought to be most closely related to eagles and hawks. The old world vulture is not thought to be closely related to the new world vulture and the old world vulture uses its spectacular sight alone in order to find food.  

The new world vultures are found in the Americas and although there are definitive similarities between the old world vulture and the new world vulture, they are believed to be connected through evolutionary status rather than DNA. The new world vultures tend to be slightly smaller than the old world vultures and use both sight and their excellent sense of smell in order to find their food.  

All species of vulture are similar in the sense that they scavenge for their food whenever possible rather than killing it themselves. Vultures feed on the remains of dead animals and are never too fussy about what is left. Vultures are known to strip meat, skin and even feathers, leaving only the skeleton of the animal remaining.  

Although vultures are generally fairly solitary animals, groups of vultures are often seen circling prey from the sky above. This movement of the vultures is called a kettle and a group of vultures together is sometimes known as a venue.  
Vultures have keen eyesight. It is believed they are able to spot a three-foot carcass from four miles away on the open plains. In some species, when an individual sees a carcass it begins to circle above it. This draws the attention of other vultures that then join in.
The feces
of the turkey vulture contains strong acids
that kill many of the bacteria commonly
associated with bird feces. Because of their
diet, these birds are able to kill harmful
bacteria and viruses with their stomach
acids, and halt the potential spread of disease
from rotting carcasses.

		 	      

	      The tree frog is a small species of frog that spends its life in the trees. True tree frogs are found inhabiting the forests and jungles in the warmer regions all over the world.  

Tree frogs are best known for their distinctive disc-shaped toes on the end of each leg. The rounded toes of the tree frog, gives its feet more suction and therefore better grip when moving around in the trees.  

There are four main species of tree frog which vary in size from just a few to more than 10 centimetres in length. The European tree frog is found in meadows and shrublands across eastern Europe but is considered endangered in western Europe. The Common tree frog is the smallest of the tree frog species and is found in a variety of habitats across south-east Asia.   

The Cuban tree frog is the largest of the four tree frog species ans is natively found in Cuba and its surrounding islands, but has been introduced to parts of Florida, the Caribbean and Hawaii. The Red-Eyed tree frog is the most distinctive of the tree frog species and is native to the jungles of Central America. The Red-Eyed tree frog has a long narrow body and hind legs which point outwards, along with its characteristic red eyes.  

As with other frogs and toads, tree frog are generally carnivorous animals, feeding primarily on insects, worms and spiders. The large Cuban tree frog will eat anything that will fit in its mouth including lizards, snakes, small mammals and even other frogs.  

Due to their small size, the tree frog has numerous predators wherever it lives in the world. Birds, mammals and reptiles of all shapes and sizes prey on the tree frog and the tree frog is also known to be a tasty tree for large fish.  

During the mating season, tree frogs make loud croak-like calls to one another in order to attract a mate. The female tree frog lays her eggs on a leaf above the water, which develop into tadpoles in just a few days when they fall into the water below. The metamorphic process from tadpole to adult tree frog can take anywhere from a few weeks to several months.		 	      

	      The warthog is a large species of pig that is found in the desert and shrub-lands of Africa. There are considered to be two species of warthog which are the common warthog and the desert warthog. The common warthog tends to be found in the more northern regions of Africa and the desert warthog is found in the south of Africa, and is sometimes also referred to as the Cape warthog.  

The warthog is named after the two sets of tusks that are found on the face of the warthog. Warthogs use their tusks both for fighting off unwanted predators and other competing male warthogs, and the warthogs also use these tusks for digging in the dirt for grubs and insects.  

Warthogs have a diet that consists mainly of grass, fruit, berries, roots and insects but warthogs are also known to occasionally eat small mammals, birds and reptiles. The diet of the warthog however, depends on the season and what is growing and therefore available for the warthog to eat.   

The warthog is a fantastic digger thanks to the strong tusks on the jaws of the warthog but the warthog also uses its head and feet to help the warthog dig into the ground either to search for grubs or so that the warthog can build a burrow. Despite the fact that the warthog is a very capable digger, warthogs seem to prefer to occupy abandoned burrows built by other animals, rather than build their own.  

Warthogs live together with other warthogs in small family groups that are known as sounders. These warthog groups generally have a few female warthog members and their young, and will have one male warthog member who is responsible for protecting the sounder and mating with the female warthogs.  

Warthogs tend to be found in areas where there is a good supply of water, so that the warthogs are not only able to drink but also enjoy to wallow in the cool, muddy water. Warthogs also prefer to inhabit grassy and open plains but have been found living close to the border of the Sahara Desert.  

The warthog has many predators in the African wild including lions, cheetahs and crocodiles but the human is one of the main predators of the warthog as they have hunted warthogs not just for their meat, but also for the ivory that is found in the tusks of the warthog.  

The warthog has very poor eye sight although warthogs have a good sense of smell which allows the warthog to hunt for food and to detect any nearing predators. Warthogs are also good at running and jumping and are well known for running with their tails pointing towards the sky. 		 	      

	      Sumatran Orang-utan Classification and Evolution
The Sumatran Orang-utan is one of two Orang-utan species in Asia, and they are natively found on the Indonesian island of Sumatra (the other species being the Bornean Orang-utan that is endemic to Borneo). Also known as the Red Ape, Orang-utans are the only species of great ape found outside of Africa and differ somewhat from their cousins overseas. Unlike other ape species that are highly sociable animals, the Sumatran Orang-utan leads a very solitary lifestyle in comparison with males and females only really coming together to mate. Another distinctive difference between the Sumatran Orang-utan and Africa's great apes is that Orang-utans spend nearly all of their lives high in the trees where Gorillas and Chimpanzees spend the majority of their time foraging and resting in the dense vegetation on the ground. The Sumatran Orang-utan is the most threatened of the two Orang-utan species with hunting and habitat loss having decimated populations throughout much of their once vast natural range.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Anatomy and Appearance
The Sumatran Orang-utan (along with the Bornean Orang-utan) is the largest arboreal animal in the world and has therefore evolved a number of key adaptations for aiding it in it's almost exclusively tree-dwelling lifestyle. Sumatran Orang-utans have arms that are much longer than their legs to help them to reach out to branches, and both their hands and feet are incredibly agile and dexterous and capable of holding a tight grip for some time. Like ours, their thumbs are opposable which also helps the Sumatran Orang-utan when picking and peeling fruits. The Sumatran Orang-utan tends to be slightly smaller in size than the Bornean Orang-utan, with generally lighter coloured orange-red hair and a longer beard than it's cousin. Male Sumatran Orang-utans develop fleshy cheek pads and throat pouches as they mature but these are narrower and not as pronounced as those found on male Bornean Orang-utans.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Distribution and Habitat
The Sumatran Orang-utan would have once been found widely distributed across the island of Sumatra, but are today confined to the most northern parts. The remaining wild Sumatran Orang-utan populations are almost all found in just once province right on the northern tip of the island, where they inhabit the dense and humid tropical forests. Preferring lowland valley forests as there is more of a variety of food, Sumatran Orang-utans can also be found at higher altitudes with a few small populations known to exist above 1,000 meters above sea level. Due to the fact that they are almost exclusively arboreal animals, the Sumatran Orang-utan relies heavily on the surrounding forest and has therefore been severely affected by the loss of much of it. Populations have dramatically decreased over the past century, mainly due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation for logging and to clear land for palm oil plantations.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Sumatran Orang-utan leads a very solitary lifestyle, moving slowly through the trees during the day in search of food. Sumatran Orang-utans spend up to 60% of their time foraging for and eating food and although they are known to occupy large home ranges, they rarely travel more than half a mile a day. At night, the Sumatran Orang-utan builds a nest high in the canopy by folding branches over where it sleeps during the night. Sumatran Orang-utans are not greatly territorial and are known to loosely share their home ranges with other individuals and can even be found feeding in the company of one another around particularly abundant fruit trees. Males though stake their claim on their home but emitting long-calls, which are deep calls that come from their throat poach and echo through the surrounding forest to both attract females to mate with and to warn off potential rivals.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Reproduction and Life Cycles
After a gestation period that last for around nine months, the female Sumatran Orang-utan constructs a new nest in the tree top where she gives birth to a single infant. The young Sumatran Orang-utan clings onto it's mother's hair for safety and never leaves her side for the first few years. Although Sumatran Orang-utan infants are often weaned by the time they are three years old, they will not leave their mother for another few more years at least as she teaches her young special skills for surviving in the forest. Sumatran Orang-utans breed more slowly than any other primate with females having a maximum of three young during their whole life, which means that in areas affected by both hunting and habitat loss populations take a very long time to then recover.   
Sumatran Orang-utan Diet and Prey
The Sumatran Orang-utan is an omnivorous animal meaning that is forages for and eats both plant matter and other animals in order to survive. However, the majority of the Sumatran Orang-utan's diet is made up of fruits that are picked from the surrounding trees. The intelligence of the Sumatran Orang-utan is obvious in these situations as they are known to make a mental map of their surrounding jungle patch and are therefore able to know not only where the fruit trees are, but also when there fruits will ripen. Along with consuming both ripe and unripe fruits which are easily peeled using their agile and nimble fingers, Sumatran Orang-utans also eat a variety of other plant matter such as fresh buds and shoots along with insects, eggs and small vertebrates on occasion. Sumatran Orang-utans get the majority of their liquid from the vast amount of fruit that they eat but are also known to drink from water sources, collecting it in their cupped hands.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Predators and Threats
Historically Sumatran Orang-utans would have been threatened by numerous predators on the forest floor and have therefore evolved to exist almost only high in the trees. The most prolific natural predator of the Sumatran Orang-utan is the Sumatran Tiger but their numbers have also declined drastically across the island due to hunting and habitat loss. Since their arrival in Indonesia, modern Humans have hunted the Sumatran Orang-utan, killing the parent and capturing the young to sell into the exotic pet trade. Although hunting has devastated populations in certain areas, it is the loss of vast areas of their unique natural habitats that has been the biggest threat to Sumatran Orang-utans and because of their slow-developing nature, has meant that populations are really struggling to recover.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Interesting Facts and Features
The Sumatran Orang-utan (along with the Bornean Orang-utan) is one of Humans' closest living relatives and we in fact share 96.4% of our DNA with them. Sumatran Orang-utans are in fact so man-like in both their appearance and behaviours that their native Malaysian name Orang Hutan literally means "Person of the Forest". Although both Orang-utan species are very solitary primates, the Sumatran Orang-utan is actually more sociable than it's slightly larger cousin as they are seen more often in family groups and gathering in areas where there is food or fresh water in abundance. Like a number of other great apes, Sumatran Orang-utans are highly intelligent animals that are known to use tools in the wild including using sticks for extracting honey and putting leaves on their hands and feet to protect them in thorny vegetation. The exact skills seem to be dependent on the individual population suggesting skills are taught to young rather than being inherited.  
Sumatran Orang-utan Relationship with Humans
Orang-utans would have once been found throughout south-east Asia but are today confined to just two islands in Indonesia. This can only have been caused by increasing levels of Human activity throughout their vast historical range, and has led to the extinction of the Orang-utan in numerous regions. Over the past century in particular, the capture of young Sumatran Orang-utans to be sold either to zoos or into the exotic pet trade has led to drastic population declines particularly as this often results in the death of the mother who trying to protect her infant. Deforestation has also obliterated populations throughout both Sumatra and Borneo from logging to collect the rare, tropical timbers and also to clear vast areas of ancient forest and peat-swamps to make way for the increasing number of palm oil plantations.   
Sumatran Orang-utan Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Sumatran Orang-utan has been listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Critically Endangered in it's natural environment and therefore faces extinction in the wild in the near future if the situation progresses as it is. Although forest clearance in south-east Asia did appear to be slowing down, the increasingly levels of demand for both tropical timber and cheap palm oil seem to have accelerated the situation once again. These activities are often conducted illegally and in areas where the last remaining Sumatran Orang-utans exist. It is estimated that there has been an 80% decline in Sumatran Orang-utan population numbers in the past 75 years with as few as between 3,000 and 5,000 individuals thought to be left in the wild.
		 	      

	       Welsh Corgis are generally recognized as two distinct breeds, the Cardigan and the Pembroke. Beginning in 1934, the American Kennel Club recognized them as separate breeds.  

 The Cardigan is the larger of the two, with larger rounded ears and a foxy, flowing tail. The Pembroke features pointed ears and is somewhat smaller in stature. Historically, the Pembroke was a breed with a natural bob tail (a very short tail). Due to the advent of docking, the trait was not aggressively pursued, with breeders focusing instead on other characteristics, and the tail artificially shortened if need be.   

Given that some countries are now banning docking, breeders are again attempting to select for dogs with the genes for natural bob tails. The coats of both breeds come in a variety of colours, although there are some differences between the breeds.		 	      

	      The Turkish Angora is a breed of domestic cat natively found in Turkey. Turkish Angoras are one of the ancient, naturally-occurring cat breeds, having originated in central Turkey, in the Ankara region.  

The Turkish Angora is mostly white in colour and has a silky, medium-long length coat, no undercoat and a fine bone structure. The Turkish Angora cat breed is also known to have bright blue eyes and occasionally eyes that are of a different colour (like one blue eye and one yellow eye).  

There seems to be a connection between Ankara Cats and Persian cats and the Turkish Angora is also a distant cousin of the Turkish Van cat. Although the Turkish Angora does share some characteristics with the Persian cat, they are distinctly different species.  

Although Turkish Angora cats are known for their shimmery white coat, currently there are more than twenty varieties including black, blue, reddish fur. They come in tabby and tabby-white, along with smoke varieties, and are in every colour other than pointed, lavender, and cinnamon.  

The Turkish Angora cat is a popular domestic cat breed today mainly due to their usually white coat, blue eyes and their playful personality. Turkish Angora cats are active animals and are very loving and affectionate towards their owners.		 	      

	      The Tiffany cat is a feline with a semi-foreign body style and a full semi-long coat. The coat is silky, soft and smooth; the lack of undercoat usually makes grooming simpler than that of cats with an undercoat.   

Somewhat a late bloomer, the Tiffany is slow to mature and usually does not come into its full stature until about two years old. The eye colour of the feline intensifies with age.  

The head should be a broad, modified wedge with gentle curves. It should have a medium length nose and a strong, broad, short and softly squared muzzle, and defined but not obvious whisker pads		 	      

	      Today, nearly half of the world's population lives in one of the many cities found around the world. This rapid flock to urban living has increased the size of cities and has therefore had an enormous impact on large areas of land around the world. Cities have transformed natural landscapes into busy urban centres, creating a new range of habitats for animals both inside and outside.  

There are countless places in cities for animals to make their homes in, and more and more animals are attracted into the cities because of the large amounts of waste. Cities have completely altered the food chains of a number of different species, and rats particularly are growing dramatically in size due to all of the chemicals that they are consuming.  

Although there are no natural habitats in urban areas, artificial ones can be found all over the world in the form of parks and areas close to water. Many insects inhabit areas throughout towns and cities, and some insects such as termites, have been known to cause severe structural damage to buildings.   

Animals create their homes both inside urban habitats and outside urban habitats. Small animals including insects, small rodents and reptiles make their nests inside buildings in small gaps and crevices, where they can be sheltered from predators and the elements. Large animal species such as foxes and rats can be found scurrying in the streets and gardens, hunting for food to eat.  

There are many natural areas in cities such as parks, lakes and rivers which attract even more animal species to live an urban lifestyle. Birds such as pigeons flock in their hundreds into city centres to snack on the food that is dropped in the streets and aquatic birds such as swans, geese and ducks can be found on the water. Rats are able to get into places where predators like cats and foxes cannot go. Rats thrive in urban areas mainly due to the enormous quantity of wasted food.  

One of the biggest hazards to animals living in urban habitats is the threat of traffic and many are often run-over. There are numerous factors for animals trying to survive in the city to contend with along with traffic, which are pollution, noise, bright lighting and the lack of space all takes it's on a number of species and deters many more from moving into the city.
		 	      

	       A well bred German Pinscher will be a loving companion with an even temperament. Temperament is hereditary. If you are considering adding a German Pinscher to your family, be sure to that you are able to meet and touch the mother of the puppy you are offered.   

Do not accept excuses for poor temperament. German Pinschers should be friendly dogs. They are highly intelligent, quick learners who do not enjoy repetition in training.

A well bred German Pinscher can be trusted with small animals and children, though no dog should ever be left unsupervised with either. If the puppy shys away when you meet it, or you are unable to touch the mother, find a better breeder.  

German Pinschers want to be part of the family. They are not happy kept outside, or in a kennel situation. They are happiest on the couch and in bed with the people they love.		 	      

	      The tiger shark is the fourth biggest shark in the world and is found in warmer and tropical waters in the Southern Hemisphere. The tiger shark tends to be found in more coastal waters but tigers sharks are also known to go into the deeper ocean if they need to hunt for food.  

The tiger shark is a fierce predator and tiger sharks hunt everything in the water including fish, seals, birds, turtles and even other sharks. The tiger shark gets it's name from the black stripes it has when it is young. Most tiger sharks lose these stripes as they get older.  

Like most other species of shark, tiger sharks have sensors on the sides of their heads which enable them to detect small muscle movements from nearby creatures. The tiger shark also has a wedge-shaped head which allows the shark to turn quickly when it needs to. Tiger sharks can reach a top speed of around 20mph which is pretty fast in the water!  

Tiger sharks are extremely aggressive animals are thought to be one of the most dangerous sharks for humans to come into contact with. Tiger sharks are solitary hunters and usually do most of their hunting at night when the tiger shark can move through the water unseen.  

Female tiger sharks mate every three years or so and the time of year when this happens depends on where the tiger shark lives. Tiger sharks in the Northern Hemisphere mate from March to May, where tiger sharks in the Southern Hemisphere mate from November to January. The eggs hatch inside the female tiger shark and can remain inside her for up to 16 months. When they are big enough, the female tiger shark gives birth to between 10 and 80 baby tiger sharks.  

Tiger sharks usually range from between 3 to 5 metres in length. Although much larger specimens have been seen, the largest a tiger shark tends to get is around 5.5 metres long.		 	      

	      Shrimp are marine crustaceans that are found on the bottom of the water in nearly every environment around the world. Shrimps are generally tiny in size, with some species of shrimp being so small that many animals cannot see them.  

There are more than 2,000 different species of shrimp worldwide, all of which are invertebrates which means that shrimp do not have a backbone. Instead, shrimp have a hard exoskeleton (the shell of the shrimp) which is often transparent and colourless making shrimp difficult to see in the water.   

The shrimp lives on the river beds and ocean floors around the world, filtering sand and particles in the water. Shrimp are known to stay in schools that contain numerous shrimp individuals, and are able to adapt easily to changes in water conditions.  

Shrimps are omnivorous animals and therefore ingest and variety of both plant and animal species. Shrimp mainly feed on algae and other plant particles along with tiny fish and plankton in the water. One species of shrimp is known to stun it's prey before eating it by making a loud noise with one of it's claws, that makes a snapping sound through the water.  

Due to their small size and abundance, shrimp are naturally prey to numerous predators around the world both in the water and out.  Shrimp are eaten by fish, crustaceans such as crabs, sea urchins, starfish, sea -birds such as puffins, whales, dolphins, sharks and humans and many other animal species as well.  

The female shrimp can lay up to a million eggs at once that only take a couple of weeks to hatch. The tiny shrimp become part of the plankton in the water until they are big enough to big hunting in groups for larger food particles.  

The shrimp is very closely related to the prawn and the thing that makes the shrimp and prawn stand out from other species of crustacean is the fact that they are able to swim through the water and although shrimps and prawns are very closely related, there are differences between them. The main difference between a shrimp and a prawn is they have different gill structures. There are different interpretations all around the world as to which species is a shrimp and which is a prawn that are often based on size and the water type where they are found.		 	      

	      The tiger is the largest feline in the world, with the tiger growing to around 2.5 metres in length. The tiger is the most powerful of all the big cats, and is native to east and southern Asia. The tiger is feared by most human beings who inhabit settlements within the tiger's territory.  

There are six different subspecies of tiger which are the Bengal tiger, the Indochinese tiger, the Malayan tiger, the Sumatran tiger, the Siberian tiger and the South China Tiger. The white tiger is actually a Bengal tiger and is therefore not a subspecies itself.  

The average tiger weighs around 300kg and a tiger can stretch its body (and tail) to roughly 4 metres. Tigers hunt snakes, boar, buffalo, crocodiles, deer, leopards and camels and are extremely effective at catching their prey due to their silent, stalking approach and their powerful bodies.  

The tiger can reach speeds of up to 90km an hour, making the tiger extremely fast. Tigers have even  been known to conflict with rhinos and elephants with the tiger generally winning.  

Tigers are generally orange with black stripes although it's common to get tigers with white and sandy coloured markings. The white tiger is a rare type of tiger, with bright white fur and black stripes, these tigers occur from a genetic mutation when in the mother tiger's womb. It is not certain that these white tigers will produce white offspring, many white tigers have been known to produce orange cubs.  

Today the tiger is a near endangered species with only a handful still roaming the Asian jungles. The tiger is still a completely dominant predator in it's environment particularly due to their extreme power, and ability to run, swim, jump and climb trees very effectively.   

The tiger is a highly adaptable animal with the tiger's territory ranging from Siberia, to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps in central and south-east Asia. The tiger is also an extremely territorial animal and the tiger is generally a solitary animal.  

Due to the tiger's size and the tiger's want to be solitary, the tiger often requires large areas of habitat that can support the tiger's prey demands. Because of the tiger's need for a large territory mixed with the fact that the tiger is native to some of the more densely populated places on earth, has meant that there have been significant conflicts between tigers and humans.  

Tigers usually mate from November to April and after a gestation period of just over 3 months, the female tiger gives birth to 2 or 3 tiger cubs. When the tiger cubs are first born they are blind and extremely vulnerable. By the time the tiger cubs is around 18 months old, it is able to hunt for itself. Tiger cubs are known to grow rapidly and can put on 100 g of weight every day. The tiger cubs usually stay with their mother until they are between 2 and 3 years old and the tiger cubs are then big enough and strong enough to venture out into the jungle to live a life of solitude.

		 	      

	      The guinea pig is found in the Andes mountains in South America, were it is used as a stable food source for the local peoples. Todays domestic guinea pig is thought to be a subspecies of the Andes guinea pig and therefore cannot be found in the wild.  

The guinea pig is a small, furry herbivore that rarely grows to more than 30cm in length. The domestic guinea pig can get to around 6 or 7 years old. A wild guinea pig would probably be about 3 or 4.  

All around the world guinea pigs are kept as pets. If treated properly and given the right amount of time and energy, they can become extremely tame.They are a lot of effort and are far from being easy to take care of but they are well worth the effort.   

The guinea pig tends to communicate through a series of high pitched squeals. Apparently guinea pigs are unable to judge height and distances accurately and should therefore never be left on a bed or table without supervision.  

Guinea pigs were thought to have been domesticated and used in South America as a source of food from as early as 5,000 BC and the guinea pig was also often depicted in art and are seen in statues that are from the times of the ancient civilizations of Peru. In some instances the guinea pig is thought to be a supernatural medium and the guinea pig is therefore often used to heal the sick.  

With the Spanish conquest of South America in the 1500s came the selective breeding of the guinea pig, which has resulted in the diverse variety of guinea pigs that are seen today.  

The domestic guinea pigs love to be with at least one other guinea pig, as guinea pigs are very sociable animals. Guinea pigs are also highly territorial and pet owners often find the guinea pig acting strangely after its cage has been cleaned out. Commonly guinea pigs will urinate and will drag their body along the floor of their newly cleaned cage in order to remark their territory.  

Wild guinea pigs tend to eat grass and small plant matter as the main part of their diet and the continuously growing teeth of the guinea pig are well suited to such a diet. The wild guinea pig is also known to supplement its diet by eating its own feces, soft pellets that are specially produced by the guinea pig so that it can digest the vital nutrients contained within it.  

Domestic guinea pigs have a diet that is primarily made up from dried food pellets and the diet of the guinea pig is often bulked out by the guinea pig eating the hay (dried grass) that is put into the cage of the guinea pig, usually as bedding.   		 	      

	      Gerbils are naturally found in the sandy plains of Africa, Asia and the Middle East. The gerbil was originally known as a desert rat until they were commercially introduced to North America and bred as pets.  

The gerbil is a small rodent, similar in many ways to by the mouse and the hamster. Gerbils have a long tail like a mouse which the gerbil is able to shed should the tail get trapped. This self defense mechanism allows the gerbil to escape predators, leaving them with just a tail.  

Gerbils have sharp claws which the gerbils use to burrow their way into the sandy grounds of the desert. The gerbils are also able to use these underground burrows to get away from danger by quickly disappearing under the sand.  

There are thought to be more than 100 different species of gerbil that are found in the wild with the majority of these gerbil species being diurnal. However, many gerbils that are kept as pets live a more nocturnal lifestyle meaning that pet gerbils tend to be awake during night time hours more than day time hours.  

Wild gerbils are well known for building extensive networks of tunnels that the gerbils are able to hide and breed in. The gerbil only really comes to the surface of the ground when the gerbil needs to find food and water.  

The long and releasable tail of the gerbil is around the same length as the gerbils body, but it appears to depend on the individual gerbil species. The gerbil uses its long tail to help the gerbil balance when the gerbil is standing on its hind legs.
		 	      

	      The tawny owl is a small to medium sized bird of prey that is found across Europe and in parts of Asia but tawny owls are mainly found in woodlands across Eurasia. The tawny owl is the most widespread owl in Europe and is the most of common bird of prey found in the UK.  

Tawny owls tend to be around 40cm tall with a wingspan of about 100cm, with the tawny owl therefore being a much stockier bird than many other species of owl in the world.  

The tawny owl is a nocturnal bird of prey, that takes advantage of their fantastic night vision to quickly catch their prey. Tawny owls prey on small rodents such as voles and mice, and also insects and small reptiles. In the same way as other species of owl, the tawny owl swallows it's prey whole and then regurgitates the bones that it cannot digest within a few hours of eating, in the form of a small pellet.  

Typically, tawny owls can be found nesting in tree holes during the daylight hours when they are resting. During the breeding season in the early spring, the male tawny owls can be seen hunting during the day as well as at night as they are collecting food to present to their mate.  

Tawny owls are known to mate for life although this is not always the case. The female tawny owl lays an average of 3 eggs in the late spring to early summer and incubates her eggs while the male tawny owl brings her food. The tawny owl chicks hatch out of their eggs after an incubation period of around a month. The tawny owl chicks are reared by their parents until they are usually around 2 months old, although it is not uncommon for the tawny owl chicks to be looked after until they are nearly 3 months of age.  

Due to the fact that tawny owls are relatively small birds (particularly in comparison to other birds of prey), the tawny owl has a number of natural predators within it's environment. Predators of the tawny owl include dogs, cats and foxes along with birds of prey such as hawks, eagles, buzzards and even larger species of owl. Rats and squirrels are the main predators of the tawny owl's eggs.  

Tawny owls inhabit dense forest and woodland where they cannot be disturbed resting during the day. During the night, tawny owls can often be heard making noises such as hooting and screeching which they do to communicate with other tawny owls, to mark their territory and to find a mate.		 	      

	      Walrus Classification and Evolution
The Walrus is a large marine mammal that is found inhabiting the freezing cold and icy waters of the Arctic Circle. Thought to be most closely related to Fur Seals, Walruses are the second largest ocean-dwelling mammals that come ashore to breed after Elephant Seals and are highly distinctive amongst pinnipeds due to their sensitive whiskers and long tusks. There are two different species of Walrus that vary slightly in appearance but mainly in geographic location which are the Atlantic Walrus and the Pacific Walrus. However, it is widely debated as to whether or not there is actually a third species known as the Laptev Walrus that is found in the Laptev Sea, which many believe to simply be a population of Pacific Walruses that specifically inhabit the area. The Walrus is considered to be an increasingly vulnerable animal species although gathering data on these elusive creatures can be difficult so it is hard to determine exactly the current status of Walrus populations in the wild.  
Walrus Anatomy and Appearance
Walruses have large and elongated bodies that are wider at the head and neck and taper towards their tail which is embedded in a web of skin. Their tough and wrinkled skin is covered by a layer of sparse, coarse hairs and is generally grey or brown in colour. However, whilst sunbathing out of the water, the skin of the Walrus (which can be up to 4cm thick) develops a pink-red colouration. Walruses have two pairs of flippers that are used to help to propel these large animals with great agility through the water, with their bodies powered by their back flippers while the front flippers are used to steer them in the right direction. On land, they move about awkwardly on all fours, curling their back flippers underneath them at right angles to give them more support. The skin on the bottom of their flippers is rough and knobbly which helps to prevent these enormous animals from slipping on the ice. Walruses have long tusks (extra-long upper canine teeth) that are used for both fighting and to dig into the ice when they are pulling their heavy bodies out of the water.  
Walrus Distribution and Habitat
Walruses are found throughout the northern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans where they inhabit ice floes and rocky coastlines, along with spending a great deal of time in the freezing cold water. During the winter months when the ice is at it's thickest, Walruses tend to prefer areas of thinner ice that they can easily break through to the surface from the water underneath. In the warmer summer months when the ice recedes, Walruses can be found more commonly on remote areas of rocky coastline. Despite being well suited to the freezing conditions in the far north, Walruses have on occasion been known to venture further south in areas of Central Canada, around the United Kingdom and even as far as the waters close to the Spanish coast. They do however, spend most of their time in and around the Arctic Circle where they are becoming increasingly under-threat from global warming which is rapidly depleting the ice that these animals have learnt to rely on.  
Walrus Behaviour and Lifestyle
Walruses are incredibly sociable animals that live in large herds on the ice floes that can contain up to thousands of individuals and consist mainly on females (cows) with their young, along with a number of dominant males (bulls). When they retreat into the water to feed, these enormous herds break up into smaller bands numbering as few as ten individuals so there is less competition for food. Male Walruses are almost double the weight of their female counterparts and have much longer tusks which can grow up to a meter in length and are used primarily for fighting with competitors for the most favoured breeding sites and the females that reside there. They are known to make a variety of vocal sounds including loud bellows during the mating season that are easily and loudly produced thanks to the two pouches of air in their necks.  
Walrus Reproduction and Life Cycles
Walruses most commonly breed in the middle of winter between the months of January and March. After a gestation period that lasts for around 15 months, a single pup is born on the ice measuring up to 1.2 meters long and weighing up 75kg. Walrus pups have short and soft hair covering their bodies, pale grey flippers and a thick, white moustache with no visible teeth. They suckle only on their mother's milk for their first six months when they begin to eat more solid foods. After their first year, Walrus pups are almost triple the size they were at birth and begin to become more and more independent, although tend to remain very close to their incredibly protective mothers until they are two or three years old. Young females will often remain close to their mother but males begin to venture away from the herd to join all-male bachelor groups. Female Walruses are able to reproduce at around 6 or 7 years of age but males are not mature until they are at least 10 years old but will often not successfully reproduce until they can prove their dominance around 5 years later.  
Walrus Diet and Prey
Walruses are carnivorous animals that only hunt and eat other animals in order to survive. They have a thick moustache containing roughly 450 very sensitive whiskers that help them to find food in the dark and murky waters at depths of around 100 meters below the surface. Walruses find almost all of their prey on the ocean floor and are known to expel streams of both air and water into the sediment to reveal food hidden under the sand. They feed primarily by sucking food into their mouths rather than using their teeth to chew on it and are even known to grip shellfish between their lips and suck the soft creature out from inside the shell, before spitting the shell out into the water. Walruses feed on a variety of different prey species including clams, snails, worms, squid, octopuses and even some species of slow-moving fish. Some Walrus populations are also known to hunt seals.  
Walrus Predators and Threats
Due to the large size and aggressive nature of these marine mammals, Walruses have few predators in their natural environments with the exception of pods of Killer Whales and the occasional brave Polar Bear, as they can easily defend themselves with their enormous tusks. Humans are the most common predators of the Walrus as they are hunted for the meat, skin and oil by local populations (along with the less desirable hunting of them for their ivory from non-native people). They are also threatened in certain areas by water pollution including oil contamination that affects them directly but also through their prey, along with large fishing vessels that harvest the animals that the Walruses prey on and not only leave them with less food, but also cause severe noise pollution in the normally quiet and remote waters.  
Walrus Interesting Facts and Features
Walruses are incredibly well adapted to living in some of the coldest regions in the world with thick skin that covers a thick layer of blubber (fat) that helps to keep them warm. Their enormous tusks were originally thought to aid them when feeding but are know known to be more do with social status and even help with mobility. Walruses dig their tusks into ice floes to help them haul their enormous bodies out of the water but also anchor their tusks into the ice so they are able to sleep whilst their bodies remain submerged beneath the waves. Walruses are also known to use their long and powerful tusks like a pick-axe to carve their way through the thick ice. Walruses feed in the darkness of the ocean floor and are known to commonly dive to depths of between 80m and 100m for nearly half an hour at a time. However, recent studies show that depending on the availability of prey, Walruses have been known to reach much deeper depths of up to 180 meters below the surface of the water.  
Walrus Relationship with Humans
For thousands of years, local people have thought of Walruses as being very similar to humans as they are known to display qualities of intelligence, are slow to reproduce and take long and very good care of their more vulnerable young. Walruses have also been hunted by people in their native countries for thousands of years as a good source of food but in more recent years they have also been increasingly hunted for the ivory in their tusks, which is considered to be second in both size and quality only to those of elephants. Large scale hunting has decimated Walrus populations, particularly in certain areas but it is also increasing amounts of pollution that is having a devastating effect on wild populations.  
Walrus Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Walrus is considered to be species that is Near Threatened in it's natural environment although data is hard to gather on these bottom-feeding mammals. They have been declining in number since the 18th century with increasing levels of hunting and human activity and more recently are becoming increasingly threatened by the lessening amount of ice due to global warming. Although the exact population size is unknown, there are estimated to be between 200,000 and 250,000 individuals remaining in the freezing waters of the Arctic Circle.
		 	      

	       German Shepherds are highly active dogs, fearless, but not hostile and often are described in breed standards as self-assured and never shy.  

 The breed is marked by a willingness to learn and an eagerness to have a purpose. Shepherds can become over-protective of their family and territory, especially if not socialised correctly. Due to their loyal nature Shepherds bond well with children they know. While typically approachable, Shepherds do not become immediate friends with strangers.  

 German Shepherds are highly obedient and not easily distracted, but due to their self-strong will must be trained by a firm hand.		 	      

	      The gharial is a large-sized reptile found in the murky waters of Northern India and the surrounding countries. The gharial is closely related to other large reptiles including caimans and alligators, although the salt-water crocodile is believed to be the gharial's closest relative.  

The gharial is most commonly found in the calmer areas of the deep, fast-flowing rivers of the North Indian subcontinent. The gharial spends most of its time in the water as it is not well suited for a life on the land, due to its short legs.   

The gharial (along with the larger adult salt-water crocodiles) is the longest of this group of large reptiles, with there having been reports of adult male gharials reaching more than six meters in length. The elongated snout of the gharial is ideal for catching fish in the water, and contains more than 50 sharp teeth.   

The gharial is a generally solitary predator and does not have the same terrifying reputation for eating humans as crocodiles do. Although the gharial has been known to show aggressive behaviour towards humans at times, the shape of the gharial's snout makes it difficult for the gharial to consume anything too big.  

The gharial is a carnivorous animal and a dominant predator within its environment. The only time that this isn't the case is when the gharial share its territory with a large salt-water crocodile. Fish is the primary food of the gharial along with insects and occasionally small animals.  

Due to its large size, the gharial has no natural predators within its environment besides humans who hunt the gharial, often for leather or meat. The gharial has also been devastatingly affected by the increasingly levels of pollution in the water and is today considered to be critically endangered in the wild.  

The female gharial makes their nests and lay their eggs during the dry season when the river shrinks exposing more the sand on the river banks. The female gharial lays between 30 and 50 eggs which are buried in a whole in the sand by her.   

The baby gharial emerge from the underground nest after a few months and are protected in the water by their mother for a few days, until they are able to fend for themselves.		 	      

	      Umbrellabird Classification and Evolution
The Umbrellabird is a large, tropical species of bird that is found inhabiting the rainforests of Central and South America. There are three different species of Umbrellabird which are the Long-Wattled Umbrellabird, the Amazonian Umbrellabird and the Bare-Necked Umbrellabird all of which live in slightly different areas. All three species are relatively similar in appearance with an umbrella-like crest on the top of their heads (for which they were named) and a pendant-shaped inflatable pouch on their throats. They are the largest species of perching bird (Passerine) in South America but populations are currently falling mainly due to habitat loss.  
Umbrellabird Anatomy and Appearance
The most distinctive feature of the Umbrellabird is the large crest on the top of it's head. During mating, the males fan their crest out so that it nearly covers the whole of their head and they then begin to make rumbling sounds to attract a female. The long, curved feathers are then retracted, making the Umbrellabird more discreet the rest of the time. All three Umbrellabird species are similar in size and have coarse black feathers covering their bodies, but each subspecies does have it's own fingerprint. The Long-Wattled Umbrellabird has a wattle on it's throat that can grow up to 35cm long; the Amazonian Umbrellabird tends to be entirely black and the males are thought to be the largest of all three species; the Bare-Necked Umbrellabird is easily distinguished by the reddish, featherless patch of skin on it's throat.  
Umbrellabird Distribution and Habitat
The Umbrellabird is found throughout the sub-tropical belt of Central and South America where they spend the majority of their time hopping between branches high up in the tree canopy. For most of the year, the Umbrellabird can be found inhabiting lowlands and mountain foothills, generally at altitudes less than 500 meters. During the breeding season however, they migrate higher into the mountains where the gather in groups known as a "Lek" where they can find a mate. These breeding sites are usually in cloud forests that are between 800 - 2,000 meters above sea level. The Umbrellabird is known as an altitudinal migrant as it migrates up and down the mountains rather than across the land.   
Umbrellabird Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Umbrellabird is generally a solitary animal that is known to co-inhabit areas with other birds including other Umbrellabirds, and similar species such as Woodpeckers. Their large size does make flying more difficult for the Umbrellabird compared to other species meaning that it tends to hop from branch to branch, gripping with it's clawed toes. Although the Umbrellabird can indeed fly short distances, they tend to be relatively slow and clunky in the air. During the breeding season however, they migrate to higher altitudes where they gather in small groups so that they can choose a mate. Here the males perform courtship displays for the females to watch before they pick a partner.  
Umbrellabird Reproduction and Life Cycles
Display territories tend to be occupied from March until June, and once having paired up, the female constructs a relatively large nest from twigs, moss and leaves inside a tree that is often far from the ground. This is thought to be to protect the nest from hungry predators that feed on the eggs of the Umbrellabird. The female then lays a single egg which is incubated for only a month before it hatches, with the chick then being fed by it's parents before it leaves the nest a couple of months later. Abandoned nests have been found alongside the current nest indicating that females may even return to the same tree to lay their egg every year. Umbrellabirds are thought to live for an average of 16 years in the wild.  
Umbrellabird Diet and Prey
Like many of the world's tropical perching birds, the Umbrellabird is an omnivorous animal that feeds on the feasts high in the tops of the trees. Fruits and small animals are the Umbrellabird's primary sources of food, eating a range of invertebrates such as insects and spiders, along with small frogs and birds. The Umbrellabird uses it's strong toes to hold onto the branches whilst it picks fruits and berries with it's curved beak. The quite long, black beak of the Umbrellabird is similar to that of a Raven and allows the Umbrellabird to snap up passing insects with ease. The Umbrellabird plays a vital role in their native eco-system as they distribute the seeds from the fruits that they eat across the forest.  
Umbrellabird Predators and Threats
The Umbrellabird spends the majority of it's time at the tops of trees so ground-dwelling predators pose little threat to this unique bird. Arboreal animals however, are a different story often preying on the eggs and younger individuals that are a more manageable size. Monkeys and Snakes are the primarily predators of the Umbrellabird, along with large Birds Of Prey such as Hawks and Eagles, that are able to hunt from the air. The biggest threat to the Umbrellabird however is Humans, who clear their native lowland forests, generally for agriculture. Although all three species are being severely affected by habitat loss, the Long-Wattled Umbrellabird is thought to be most under threat as it lives in only a handful of very specific areas.   
Umbrellabird Interesting Facts and Features
The distinctive throat pouch of the Umbrellabird inflates on the males during the breeding season. The reason for this is because it is thought to make their rumbling calls louder, making a booming sound that is said to sound like a Hippo. The wattle is one of the characteristics that differs the most between the three species of Umbrellabird. The Long-Wattled Umbrellabird has long black wattle (as it's name suggests), where the Amazonian's is shorter, and the Bare-Necked Umbrellabird's is red in colour and much smaller than the others. The Umbrellabird was discovered by Sir Alfred Wallace, a companion of Charles Darwin's, in the 1800s whilst on an expedition to South America.   
Umbrellabird Relationship with Humans
Due to the fact that the Umbrellabird lives high in the rainforest canopy and is rarely seen in open areas, it can often be hard to spot during the non-breeding season when it is in the lowlands. Higher up in the mountain cloud forests however, the breeding sites of the Umbrellabird have been known to be targeted by local hunters. It is the deforestation of the lowlands where they spend most of their time however, that has led to drastic declines in their population numbers. These areas are most commonly turned into pineapple and banana plantations that do not accomodate their arboreal lifestyle.   
Umbrellabird Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, both the Long-Wattled Umbrellabird and the Bare-Necked Umbrellabird are considered to be Threatened species, where the Amazonian Umbrellabird has been classified by the IUCN as Least Concern. All three species are under threat, mainly due to the loss of significant chunks of their natural habitats, with most of the remaining populations now found in protected areas.
		 	      

	      The turkey is a large bird that is closely related to other game birds such as pheasants, chickens and quails. The turkey has become famous across the western world as being a special meal on large family occasions including Christmas and Thanksgiving.   

Despite their large size, turkeys are surprisingly adept fliers and can be seen flying beneath the forest canopy looking for somewhere to perch. Although turkeys do nest in the trees, they are most commonly found in open forests, woodlands and grasslands.  

There are two different species of turkey which are the wild turkey and the ocellated turkey. The wild turkey is found naturally in the open forests of North America and is the heaviest of all of the game bird species. The ocellated turkey is found in south-east Mexico and although the same size as the wild turkey, the ocellated turkey is roughly half the weight of the wild turkey.  

The wild turkey is a large, round looking bird that has long, thin legs with three toes on each foot to help with balance and for scratching around in the dirt. The male wild turkey has a red, featherless head and throat which has small growths on it known as caruncles.  

The ocellated turkey is a more elegant looking bird and, although closely related to the wild turkey, the ocellated turkey is very similar in appearance to a female peacock. The ocellated turkey has a narrow body and long legs, and the males have featherless necks and heads which can be red or blue in colour and are often more subtle than the those of the male wild turkeys.  

The turkey is an omnivorous animal meaning that it eats both plants and plant matter, and other animals. The turkey primarily eats nuts, seeds, fruits, berries and insects which is often finds whilst scratching around on the forest floor. The turkey also eats small reptiles, amphibians and even rodents should it get the chance.   

Despite its large size, both species of turkey have a number of predators within their natural environment. Foxes, snakes, raccoons, wildcats and humans are the most common predators of the turkey.  

During the mating season, male turkeys make gobbling noises in order to try and attract a female turkey to mate with. The female turkey finds somewhere safe to make her nest and lays between 6 and 12 eggs which hatch after an incubation period of about a month.  

Today, the turkey is one of the most popular meats to eat on festive occasions and is farmed in large numbers across the western world. It is thought that over 250 million turkeys are farmed in the United States every year!		 	      

	      The giant clam is the largest immobile mollusc in the world, with the occasional giant clam individual reaching nearly 6ft in length. Once the giant clam has settled somewhere the giant clam remains there for the rest of its life.  

Giant clams are founded anchored to the coral reefs in the warm, tropical waters of the Indian and South Pacific oceans, where giant clams spend the majority of their time feeding on the abundant variety of food that a coral reef has to offer.  

Due to the large size of the giant clam, there have been reports of giant clams eating human beings. Despite this though, no reports of man-eating giant clams have ever been verified as it is thought that the giant clam would simply hide in its shell rather than attack an approaching human.  

Giant clams are thought to grow to such enormous sizes due to the fact that giant clams consume a great deal of sugars and proteins that are produced by the algae that live on the giant clams.   

Although giant clams are omnivorous animals and therefore eat a mixture of both plant and animal matter, the nutrients produced by the algae provide the main source of food for the giant clam. Giant clams are also known to eat small food particles and animals that are present in the surrounding water.  

Despite the vast size of the giant clam, giant clams are preyed upon by a number of marine predators, many of which are actually much smaller in size than the giant clam itself. Eels, snails, fish and starfish are all known to snack on small parts of the giant clam.  

Giant clams are also preyed upon by humans, who catch the giant clams in order to feed on a particular muscle which is seen as a culinary delicacy in many countries. The excessive harvesting of giant clams by humans has led to rapid declines in the world's giant clam population.  

Giant clams have both male and female reproductive organs but are not thought to self-fertilise. Giant clams release eggs and sperm into the water, where the eggs will generally be fertilised by the sperm from another giant clam. Giant clams are able to release more than 500 million eggs at a time.  

Once fertilised, the eggs of the giant clam float around in the water for around 12 hours when the larvae hatches out. The giant clam larvae than begins to produce a shell and with just a few days, is big enough to find somewhere to settle on the sea floor.  

Once a giant clam has found somewhere in the reef that it likes, it anchors itself onto the reef where it remains for the rest of its life. Giant clams are so successful within their environment that it is not uncommon for these giant molluscs to live for more than 100 years!		 	      

	      Hammerhead Sharks are appropriately named after their flat shaped heads. Hammerhead sharks are large carnivorous fish that prey on large fish and occasionally hammerhead sharks will hunt small water mammals.    

Hammerhead sharks are found in the warmer waters of oceans worldwide but hammerhead sharks are particularly found in coastal waters, and along continental shelves. The shallow waters that the hammerhead sharks inhabit allow the hammerhead shark to hunt prey more easily.  

There are 9 different species of hammerhead shark worldwide, ranging from 3ft to 20ft in length! Hammerhead sharks are not commonly known to attack humans but can be aggressive if a human came into contact with a hammerhead shark.   

The flat shaped head of the hammerhead shark is thought to allow the hammerhead shark to detect prey more easily, as it increases the hammerhead sharks sensitivity to sonar activity. Hammerhead sharks are thought to use sonar waves detection in a similar way to their five main senses, so its like the hammerhead shark has a sixth sense.  

The shape of the head of the hammerhead shark is made up of two projections on either side of the face of the hammerhead shark, which gives the hammerhead shark the head shape that resembles a hammer almost rectangular in shape. The eyes and nostrils of the hammerhead shark are found at the ends of the hammer allowing the hammerhead shark to have better vision and smell of the surrounding water.  

Like many other species of shark the hammerhead shark is a solitary hunter during the night, but during the daytime hammerhead sharks are known to form schools of up to 100 hammerhead shark individuals. Hammerhead sharks are commonly seen in larger groups during the summer months when the hammerhead sharks are migrating together in search of cooler waters.  

The great hammerhead shark is the largest species of hammerhead shark and one of the few species of hammerhead shark that is potentially dangerous to humans. This is due to the sheer size of the giant hammerhead shark and also because the giant hammerhead is known to have an aggressive temperament. Other species of hammerhead shark tend to pose little or no threat to humans as these species of hammerhead shark are generally much smaller than the giant hammerhead shark and are slightly calmer in their nature.		 	      

	      Goats originated from the mountainous areas of west Asia and eastern Europe, grazing on hillsides and plains. Modern day common goats are known as domesticated goats and are thought to be very closely related to a sheep.  

For thousands of years goats have been used for their meat, hair, milk and skins. In some countries goats are also used to help with carrying heavy loads.  

One of the rarer species of goat is the fainting goat from Tennessee in the United States. These goats literally freeze up, the goats legs go rigid and the goat falls over. The goat will soon get back up and continue grazing until it happens again.   

Most species of male goats naturally have two horns on the top of their head. The horns of the goat are made out of the substance keratin, from which human fingernails are also made. The male goats mainly use their horns to defend themselves from other dominant male goats and from unwanted predators. Some species of goat also have females that have two horns on the tops of their heads.  

Goats are typically found in more barren landscapes and many species of goat tend to prefer mountainous and rocky terrains. The goats that inhabit the mountainous cliff faces are amazingly agile and are able to hold their hold well on small ledges and are very adept at jumping and running around on them.  

The goat is natural prey to many predators which include leopards, tigers, large reptiles and most commonly humans. Today the goat is also found in parts of South America where the goats are farmed and hunted for their meat and skins.  

The goat is most closely related to the sheep and there are many similarities between the two species as well as a number of differences which include the tail length of the goat which is noticeably longer than the tail of the sheep.
		 	      

	       The west highland terrier is a small and generally white dog from the United Kingdom (although the black highland terrier are being bred more readily today).  

Westies are prone to allergies and dry skin issues, and bathing too frequently may aggravate these problems. Washing once a month or on a longer interval will generally not cause issues. However, frequent brushings are needed to keep the coat clean and oils evenly distributed throughout the coat.   

Washing with a detergent-free, baby-oriented, or another soft skin shampoo will help keep a Westie's skin hydrated. Weekly washing of the inside of the ears with cotton balls will prevent oil and wax build-up and ear infections.		 	      

	      The giant African land snail, is the largest species of snail found on land and generally grow to around 20 cm in length. The giant African land snail is native to the forest areas of East Africa but has been introduced into Asia, the Caribbean and a number of islands in both the Pacific and the Indian oceans.  

The giant African land snail is generally seen as a pest as these snails will eat almost anything vegetarian that they can find and have proven to be quite destructive when around crops and wild flowers. Giant African land snails are also known to carry parasites and are illegal to keep as pets in some countries such as the USA.  

The giant African land snail is native to humid, forest areas but can today be found in agricultural areas, coast land, natural forest, planted forests, shrublands, urban areas, and wetlands. The giant African land snail is seen to be highly invasive species and large colonies of land snails can be formed from just one individual.  

Giant African land snails have both male and female reproductive organs. Although giant African land snails primarily mate with one another, in more isolated regions the giant African land snail is capable of reproducing by itself. Giant African land snail lay around 6 clutches of eggs every year, laying an average of 200 eggs per clutch. Around 90% of snail hatchings survive meaning that a snail free area can quickly become infested.  

Giant African land snails are active during the night and spend the daytime hours safely buried underground. Giant African land snails reach their adult size by the time they are 6 months old and although their growth rate slows at this point, giant African land snails never stop growing. Most giant African land snail reach between 5 and 6 years of age but some giant African land snail individuals have been known to be more than 10 years old.  

During periods of extreme drought, the giant African land snail goes into aestivation (summer sleep). The giant African land snail seals itself inside it's shell to retain water and giant African land snails do this about 3 times a year, depending on the areas in which they inhabit.		 	      

	      Uguisu Classification and Evolution
The Uguisu is a small species of bird that is natively found throughout Japan, China and Taiwan, along with a number of other regions of the far east. The Uguisu is also commonly known as the Japanese Bush-Warbler, as it is named for it's beautifully distinctive song. The Uguisu is most closely related to other small songbirds including Bushtits and Nightingales which they are similar in appearance too, although the Uguisu is generally very slightly larger. Although they do not sing at night, the beauty of the Uguisu's song is said to have led to them also being known as the Japanese Nightingale. The Uguisu was first described as a documented species by Heinrich von Kittlitz in 1830.  
Uguisu Anatomy and Appearance
The Uguisu is a small-sized bird that is known for it's fairly dull colouration, particularly in comparison with the beauty of it's song. They tend to be olive-green or light brown in colour with darker plumage towards the tips of their wings and tail. The tail of the Uguisu is relatively long in relation to it's body size and is comprised of straight feathers, making it similar in appearance to Long-Tailed Tits to which the Uguisu are thought to be closely related. Like other species of small perching bird, the Uguisu also has thin legs with long, clawed toes to help them grip onto branches more easily. The Uguisu has small dark eyes with pale stripes above each one, and a straight, tan coloured beak.   
Uguisu Distribution and Habitat
The Uguisu is most commonly inhabits regions throughout Japan where it is found all year round, along with parts of the northern Philippines. The Uguisu is also native to southern Russia, China and Korea and is found in countries including Taiwan on a more seasonal basis. The Uguisu tends to be found in mountainous regions at the varying altitudes of both lowland hills and high up in the mountain forests, and are known to move further down the mountains during the winter. The Uguisu is found in seasonal forests and bamboo thickets where there is plenty of foliage to hide amongst, along with an ample supply of food.  
Uguisu Behaviour and Lifestyle
In a similar way to Nightingales, the Uguisu is a relatively solitary bird with individuals only really coming together during the breeding season. The Uguisu is fairly quiet during the winter months making low chirping noises in the bare trees, but in early spring they break into song in order to try and attract a mate. The Uguisu is more heard than seen by many people due to their highly secretive nature, as they spend the majority of the daylight hours hiding deep in the shadows of the surrounding foliage. In some areas, the Uguisu are migratory birds flying between different countries with the changing seasons. This is most commonly to escape from the cold mountain winters, particularly on the large Japanese island of Hokkaido in the north.  
Uguisu Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Uguisu breeding season begins in the early spring when the males break into beautiful song in order to try and attract a female to mate with. Like Nightingales, males and females are fairly similar in appearance although the female tends to be slightly smaller in size. The female Uguisu constructs a cup-shaped nest in a dense thicket out of twigs, leaves and moss where she lays up to 5 small eggs. The Uguisu female sits on her eggs to keep them warm and to protect them for between 2 and 3 weeks when the chicks hatch. The Uguisu chicks are fed and cared for by their mother until they fledge at around 2 weeks old. The Uguisu tends to live for between 2 and 5 years in the wild.  
Uguisu Diet and Prey
The Uguisu is an omnivorous animal meaning that they feed on a variety of both plants and animals. Like other Warblers and Nightingales, the Uguisu has a predominantly insect-based diet feeding on Flies, Worms, Beetles, Moths and Grasshoppers in the forest. The Uguisu is also known to forage for fruits and berries to supplement it's diet. The need to find food is one reason why the Uguisu migrates in some parts of their natural range. During the winter months, not only is it much colder but the Uguisu also finds it more difficult to find food in such uncompromising conditions. By moving down to the lowlands, there is a higher chance that supper will not be in such short supply.   
Uguisu Predators and Threats
The Uguisu is a very distinctive bird and it's calls can be heard throughout the mountainous forests of the far east. Their relatively drab colouration however, means that although the Uguisu can be easily heard they are in fact very difficult for predators to spot amongst the foliage. There are a number of animals that do manage to catch the Uguisu though with it's main predators including feral Cats and Dogs, along with Snakes, Lizards and Birds Of Prey. Uguisu's are also under threat from people who have cut more and more of the natural forest down to make way for growing towns and cities, meaning that the Uguisu has lost much of it's natural habitat.   
Uguisu Interesting Facts and Features
The beautiful song of the Uguisu is thought to not only be to do with finding a mate, but it is also thought to be a declaration of territory to other individuals in the area. Oddly enough, the droppings of the Uguisu (known as guano) are now used as a product in certain face creams particularly, as it is thought to make skin softer and more radiant looking. Apparently this peculiar choice in moisturiser is thought to have been used by geishas and kabuki actors throughout Japan for centuries, and it is now sold as a commercial product. The Uguisu is seen as a sign of spring coming in Japan and is therefore also known by other names such as the Spring Bird and the Hanami Bird.  
Uguisu Relationship with Humans
Throughout much of it's native Japan, the Uguisu has been depicted in both art and poetry because of the beauty of it's characteristic song. It is also due to this though that they were often kept as cage-birds and would sadly lead a very poor life. Due to the use of their guano as a skin enhancer they are now caged so that it can be more easily collected to ship all around the world. Growing Human settlements, along with land clearance for logging and agriculture, and rising pollution levels have all led to population declines throughout much of the Uguisu's natural range.  
Uguisu Conservation Status and Life Today
The Uguisu has been listed on the IUCN Red List as an animal that is classified as Least Concern and is therefore not under imminent threat as a species in it's natural environment. This is because the Uguisu is found in a number of countries at varying altitudes and therefore habitats, and so is fairly widespread. Population numbers in certain areas are also stable, but they are declining in others primarily due to deforestation. They are now farmed in Japan so that their guano can be collected and used as a component in certain creams.
		 	      

	        
  
  
  
  
  
 	      

	      The water dragon is a large species of lizard native to the forests and jungles of Asia and Australia. Water dragons are arboreal animals meaning that they spend most of their time in the trees, often close to a large body of water.  

There are two different species of water dragon, which are the Australian water dragon and the Asian water dragon. The Australian water dragon is the smaller of the two water dragon species and is found on the east coast of Australia. Australian water dragons have powerful legs and sharp claws which help them to climb trees more effectively.  

The Asian water dragon is the larger and more colourful of the two water dragon species and is found in forests and jungles throughout India, China, Laos, Vietnam, Burma and Thailand. The Asian water dragon also has a third eye (known as the pineal gland), which is thought to be able to detect difference in light.  

Although water dragons are generally tree-dwelling animals, they also spend a great deal of time in or very close to the water. Water dragons are strong and capable swimmers and often leap into the water from the branches high above in order to escape approaching danger.  

Like many other lizard species, water dragons are omnivorous animals eating a variety of plant and animal species. Water dragons primarily prey upon small animals such as lizards, frogs and rodents, insects and fish which they catch will there long tongue.  

Due to their relatively large size, water dragons have limited predators within their natural environment, although this is entirely dependent on where the area which the water dragon inhabits. Snakes, large birds and carnivorous mammals are the primary predators of the water dragon.  

Water dragons hibernate during the cooler winters and begin breeding when they emerge in the spring. The female water dragon digs a burrow in the ground where she lays up to 18 eggs, and then buries them. The water dragon young hatch within a few months and remain close to the nest until they become bigger and more adventurous. 		 	      

	      The Sumatran elephant is a sub-species of Asian elephant which includes the Indian elephant, the Sumatran elephant, the Sri-Lanka elephant and the Borneo elephant. The Sumatran elephant is extremely rare today, with estimates in 2000 putting Sumatran elephant numbers at just over 2,000 individuals.  

As its name suggests, the Sumatran elephant is found exclusively on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. However, the Sumatran elephant population has severely declined as they have lost more than 80% of their natural habitat to deforestation for palm oil plantations.  

The Sumatran elephant has smaller ears than the African elephant and the Sumatran elephant also has a more curved spine than the African elephant. Unlike the African elephants, the female Sumatran elephants very rarely have tusks, and if the female Sumatran elephant does have tusks, they are generally barely visible and can only be seen when the female Sumatran elephant opens her mouth.  

The Sumatran elephant follows strict migration routes that are determined by the monsoon season. The eldest elephant of the Sumatran elephant herd is responsible for remembering the migration route of its Sumatran elephant herd. This Sumatran elephant migration generally takes place between the wet and dry seasons and problems arose when farms where built along the migratory routes of the Sumatran elephant herds, as the Sumatran elephants caused a great deal of destruction to the newly founded farmland.  

Sumatran elephants are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that they need to survive. Sumatran elephants eat a wide variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, shoots, barks, fruits, nuts and seeds. Sumatran elephants often use their long trunk to assist them in gathering food.  

Due to their large size, Sumatran elephants have very few predators within their natural environment. Besides human hunters, Sumatran tigers are the primary predator of the Sumatran elephant, although they tend to hunt the smaller Sumatran elephant calves rather than the much larger and stronger adults.  

Female Sumatran elephants are generally able to breed by the time they are 10 years old, and give birth to a single Sumatran elephant calf after a 22 month gestation period. When the Sumatran elephant calf is first born, it weighs about 100 kg, and is cared for not only by it's mother by also by other female Sumatran elephants in the herd (known as aunties). The infant Sumatran elephant remains with its mother until it is around 5 years old and gains its independence, with males often leaving the herd and female calves staying.  

Today, the Sumatran elephant is considered to be an animal that is in immediate danger of becoming extinct due to the fact that Sumatran elephant populations have been declining at a critical rate. Sumatran elephants are thought to be suffering primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation and hunting for their ivory tusks by human poachers. 
		 	      

	      The guppy (also known as the millionfish) is a small colourful species of freshwater tropical fish that is found naturally in the rivers and lakes of South America. There are nearly 300 different types of guppy spread throughout Barbados, Brazil, Guyana, Netherlands Antilles, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela.  

The guppy is one of the most popular types of aquarium tropical fish in the world as they are small, colourful and easier to keep than many other species of fish. The guppy generally lives from 3 to 5 years old in captivity and slightly less in the wild.  

The guppy has been introduced to most other countries mainly as a method of mosquito prevention as the guppy eats the mosquito larva before they are able to fly, therefore slowing down the spread of malaria.   

The guppy is an extremely colourful fish and often displays elaborate patterns on it's tail fin. The female guppy and the male guppy can be identified quite easily as the female guppy has a small, patterned tail where the tail of the mail guppy is much longer and generally has fewer markings. The female guppy also tends to be larger in size than the male guppy.  

The guppy gives birth to live young, meaning that the eggs are first incubated inside the female guppy and hatch there too. The incubation period of the guppy is about a month after which the female guppy can give birth to up to 100 baby guppies, which are called fry. As soon as they are born, the guppy fry are able to eat and swim around freely. The guppy fry are also able to sense and avoid danger which is important when around older guppies as they often eat the fry. The guppy fry have matured in adult guppies within a couple of months.  

After mating just once with a male guppy, the female guppy is able to give birth numerous times. The female guppy stores the sperm of the male guppy inside her and just hours after giving birth to her fry, the female guppy is ready to become pregnant again and will do so using the stored sperm (hence why the guppy is often called the millionfish).  

The guppy is an omnivorous animal and eats a wide range of organic matter that is available in the water. The guppy mainly feeds on algae and brine shrimp, and often eat particles of food from the water that have been left by a larger fish.  

The guppy has many natural predators in the wild (and in tanks) mainly due to their small size and their elaborate fins often attract unwanted attention. Birds such as kingfishers and larger fish are the primary predators of the guppy, so naturally, guppies that are kept in a tank should be kept with other very small fish to prevent them from being eaten.		 	      

	      The glow worm is a medium to large sized invertebrate that is famous for having a green and yellow coloured light on the end of it's tail.   

Glow worms are found inhabiting dense woodland and caves around the world with the exception of the Americas and glow worms are one of the few insects that are found inside the colder Arctic Circle. Glow worms are nocturnal animals which means that they are active during the dark night which is when their glowing rears can be seen.  

Glow worm is the common name for various different groups of insect larva and adult larviform females which glow through bioluminescence. Glow worms may sometimes resemble actual worms, but all are insects as one species of glow worm is a type of fly but most glow worms species are actually beetles.  

It is only the female glow worms that actually glow as they spend around 2 hours every night in the mating season with their bottoms in the air, trying to attract a mate. The male glow worms are attracted to the glowing object in the foliage but have also been known to be attracted to man-made lighting such as street lights.  

Glow worms are most commonly seen in the UK between June and October and their green-lit tails tend to show up most clearly when the sun goes down at dusk. Legend says that early humans used to use glow worms to mark paths and provide light in huts. Glow worms were thought to have some kind of magical power and so people would also use the glow worm in medicines.  

Glow worms are omnivorous animals but they tend to have a very meat-based diet. Glow worms predominantly prey on snails and slugs which make up the majority of the glow worm's diet. Glow worms also prey on other insects and small invertebrates.  

Due to their small size and the fact that they glow in the darkness, glow worms have numerous natural predators within their environment including spiders, large insects, birds, reptiles and centipedes.  

Typically, the female glow worms lays between 50 and 100 eggs in moist areas, over a period of a few days. The tiny glow worm eggs are yellow in colour and can take between 3 and 6 weeks to hatch depending on the climate (the warmer it is, the faster the glow worm eggs will hatch).  

Glow worms are considered to be an animal species that is threatened with extinction as the glow worm population numbers are drastically decreasing. The main reason for the lower number of glow worms is thought to be the expansion of human civilisations. Glow worms are known to be particularly vulnerable to changes in their environment including habitat loss, noise and pollution.		 	      

	       The temperament of the Golden Retriever is a hallmark of the breed and is described in the standard as kindly, friendly and confident. They are not one man dogs and are generally equally amiable with both strangers and those familiar to them. Their trusting, gentle disposition therefore makes them a poor guard dog.  

 Any form of unprovoked aggression or hostility towards either people, dogs or other animals, whether in the show ring or community, is completely unacceptable in a Golden Retriever and is not in keeping with the character of the breed and as such is considered a serious fault. Nor should a Golden Retriever be unduly timid or nervous.  

 The typical Golden Retriever is calm, naturally intelligent and biddable, with an exceptional eagerness to please. They love pleasing their owners as well as getting along with strangers.		 	      

	      Golden Oriole Classification and Evolution
The Golden Oriole (also known as the Eurasian Oriole), is a small species of Bird found throughout Europe and western Asia. The Golden Oriole's name is thought to have arisen during the 18th century after the classical Latin word meaning gold. Although almost indistinguishable in appearance, some believe that the Golden Orioles found in Europe, are actually a separate sub-species to those found in Asia. They are also known to be the only member of the Oriole family that breeds in the more temperate regions of the northern hemisphere.  
Golden Oriole Anatomy and Appearance
The male Golden Oriole is an incredibly coloured Bird, with striking yellow and jet black plumage, and fully black wings. As with many other Birds, the female of the species is more dull-looking being slightly greener in colour. Both however, are hard to spot in the canopy as they are perfectly camouflaged amongst the leaves. Golden Orioles tend to be between 20 - 24 cm in height and are often mistaken for Thrushes and even green Woodpeckers when in flight. They have dark red eyes, and a fairly thick, pink beak that is curved slightly downwards at the end.   
Golden Oriole Distribution and Habitat
The Golden Oriole is predominantly found throughout Europe and western Asia but also in parts of Africa. The Golden Oriole is a summer migrant meaning that it migrates north for the cooler summer climates, and flies back south to the tropics when the winter begins to emerge. The Golden Oriole is nearly always found in well-timbered forests and woodland, along with parks, orchards and gardens. They spend the majority of their time high in the tree canopy where their distinctive plumage helps them to remain hidden from lurking predators.  
Golden Oriole Behaviour and Lifestyle
Due to it's excellent camouflage amongst the leaves, and it's shy nature, the Golden Oriole is an almost impossible Bird to spot. However, it is it's unmistakable song that alerts all around to it's presence, which is said to sound very fluty and can be heard over considerable distances. Their basic calls however are often compared to the screech of a Jay, but both are used to communicate with other Golden Orioles inhabiting the surrounding forest. The Golden Oriole is a migratory and generally quite solitary Bird, but can be seen migrating, often under the cover of night, in large flocks.   
Golden Oriole Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Golden Oriole breeds in the more temperate northern regions during the summer months, where courtship displays involve them chasing one another from tree to tree and through the canopy. The female Golden Oriole builds her nest, generally in the fork of a tree out of plant fibres and stems, in the shape of a shallow cup. She lays between 3 and 6 eggs which hatch after an incubation period of between 15 and 18 days, that is predominantly conducted by the female. Once hatched, both Golden Oriole parents help to feed and look after their young, which will have left their nest (fledged) within 20 days. Golden Orioles usually live to be around 9 or 10 years old.  
Golden Oriole Diet and Prey
The Golden Oriole is an omnivorous animal that primarily feeds on insects, fruits and seeds high up in the tree canopy. The relatively thick, slightly curved beak of the Golden Oriole is the perfect shape for picking Insects out of holes and plucking fruits off the branches. The Golden Oriole also has wide, clawed feet which assist the Bird in holding onto the more tricky branches when it is trying to gather food. They also play a vital role in re-distributing the seeds from the fruits, throughout their native eco-systems.   
Golden Oriole Predators and Threats
Despite their shy disposition, the Golden Oriole can become incredibly aggressive towards any animal that tries to go near it's nest, swooping and diving at the invader to try and intimidate it. Due to it's tree-top lifestyle, the Golden Oriole is safe from numerous predators lower down the trees, but it is still vulnerable to larger Birds such as Crows, and Birds Of Prey including Eagles, Hawks and Raptors. They are also threatened by deforestation and therefore habitat destruction in their native environments.  
Golden Oriole Interesting Facts and Features
The people living in the northern parts of Europe, are known to be able to predict the start of spring with the coming of the Golden Oriole. The Golden Orioles inhabiting more western European regions, are known to migrate as far south as Namibia and South Africa when the winter begins to set in. Despite that the Golden Oriole was thought to have been properly named in the 18th century, it is thought that the Romans could have been calling them Orioles as early as the 12th century.  
Golden Oriole Relationship with Humans
The Golden Oriole is an incredibly shy Bird and very hard to spot high up in the canopy. Without the use of binoculars, the greener females particularly, are commonly mistaken for Green Woodpeckers, although their flight after a time is noticeably different. Humans have however, always been awe-struck by their beautifully distinctive, floaty song. The biggest impact that Humans have on the Golden Oriole is the deforestation of their native forests, meaning that their range is quite rapidly decreasing in size as they are losing more and more of their natural habitat.  
Golden Oriole Conservation Status and Life Today
The Golden Oriole has been listed as being an animal that is of Least Concern of imminent extinction in the wild, as even though their territories are shrinking, populations generally seem to be stable. The Golden Orioles found across Asia are known to be decreasing slightly in number, but it is thought that those found in Europe, actually seem to be on the rise.

		 	      

	       The Giant Schnauzer is a large, powerful, dominant dog which needs a firm, consistent but friendly handler. Unnecessary harshness will only do harm.  

Early and consistent training is necessary as Giant Schnauzers tend to be very willful and highly intelligent dogs. Their ability to understand a command does not always translate into obedience.  

Giant Schnauzers are fiercely loyal, often becoming so attached to their owner that they follow them around the house. They are extremely kind natured (similar to that of a retriever or Labrador) and a good choice for those with children.
		 	      

	      The gibbon is a small sized ape, found inhabiting the dense jungles and tropical rainforests across south-east Asia. Gibbons belong to the lesser ape family which are closely related to the great apes (chimpanzees, orang-utans, bonobos, gorillas and humans).  

Gibbons are small and lightweight monkeys that grow to around 90cm tall and weigh just 7kg. The lightweight body of the gibbons means that the gibbon is able to move around in and leap between the trees.  

Gibbons are arboreal animals which means that they spend the majority of their lives in the trees. Living in the trees has it's advantages for the gibbon as the gibbon has plenty of food and is also a safe distance above ground from predators.  

There are more than 10 different species of gibbon living in the trees from northern India and the islands of Indonesia. All the gibbon species are fairly similar in shape and size, but the different species of gibbon differ most in their colours which range from grey, to brown, to black. Some species of gibbon are identified by the white markings on their faces.  

Gibbons have very long arms which are often longer than the gibbon's legs. Gibbons use their arms to help them to move around in the trees and to balance whilst they are walking along branches. Gibbons are known to be the fastest, non-flying tree dwelling mammals in the world as they can move at speeds of up to 35mph and are able to swing themselves 15 meters from tree to tree. Gibbons are also incredible at leaping and can leap long distances of up to 8 meters. Like all other species of ape, gibbons do not have a tail.  

Gibbons are omnivorous animals meaning that they eat a mixture of both plant and animal matter. The main food of the gibbon is ripe fruit which grow around them in the trees, and makes up around three quarters of the gibbon's diet. Gibbons also prey on insects, eggs, spiders and small birds and reptiles.  

Due to their tree-dwelling nature, gibbons have few natural predators in their environment apart from those that can also get up the tall trees. Leopards, large snakes and birds of prey are the main predators of the gibbon.  

Gibbons live in groups, known as troops which consists of the alpha male and female, and their offspring. Gibbons mates usually stay together for life and the female gibbon gives birth to a single baby gibbon after a gestation period of around 7 months. The male gibbon and the female gibbon look after the baby gibbon until it is about a year old, but the baby gibbon usually stays close to it's mother until it is older (between 6 and 7) and is able to start a family of it's own.  

Nearly all of the different species of gibbon are today considered to be either threatened or extinction mainly due to deforestation and habitat loss.		 	      

	      The dormouse is a small mouse-like rodent predominantly found in Europe. There are 29 different species of dormouse found today, which are most well-known for their long periods of hibernation throughout the cooler winter months.  

Although the dormouse is mainly found inhabiting areas of dense forest and woodland across Europe, a number of dormouse species also extended their range into the warmer Asian and African continents, where they can be found nesting and foraging in the thick undergrowth, out of sight from predators.  

The dormouse, although a generally small rodent species, can grow up to 20 centimetres long depending on the dormouse species. The small body size of the dormouse, allows it to move through the vegetation without being so easily detected.  

Most dormouse species are very agile and well-adapted to climbing and life in the trees. Dormouse are known to communicate between one another using noises which other dormice pick up using their very sensitive hearing. Many species of dormouse are also nocturnal although not all.  

The dormouse is an omnivorous animal meaning that it hunts and feeds on a variety of both plants and other animals. Fruits, nuts, insects, seeds, berries and flowers are the primary sources of food for the dormouse, although the exact diet of the dormouse depends on the species and the area which it inhabits.  

Due to their relatively small size, the dormouse is preyed upon by numerous predators in it's woodland habitat. Birds such as owls, falcons and small eagles prey on the dormouse from high in the sky, while mammals such as foxes, cats, stoats and weasels hunt the dormouse on ground level.  

Once emerged from hibernation in late spring, dormice begin to breed. Female dormice can have more than one litter a year, which generally contains 3 - 5 offspring. Dormouse babies are born after a gestation period of about a month, with no hair and do not open their eyes until they are 2 or 3 weeks old. As with other small rodents, dormice are able to get to five years old, although many are eaten when they are much younger.  

Today, although the dormouse is not considered to be a vulnerable or endangered species, concerns have been raised over declining dormouse numbers in parts of Europe, particularly the UK, where habitat loss is thought to be the main factor for the demise in dormouse population numbers.		 	      

	      The golden lion tamarin is a small monkey native to the eastern rainforests of Brazil. The golden lion tamarin is today considered an endangered species as there are estimated to be around 1,000 golden lion tamarin individuals left in the wild.  

Golden lion tamarins are best known for their bright fur which (as the name suggests) is golden and orange in colour. The golden lion tamarin is one of the smallest primates in the world with the average golden lion tamarin adult growing to just 20cm tall! The golden lion tamarin also has an incredibly long tail which is often longer than the golden lion tamarin's body. Despite the long length of the golden lion tamarin's tail, it is not prehensile which means that the golden lion tamarin cannot use it's tail to grab onto trees and hold on.  

The golden lion tamarin leads and arboreal existence meaning that the golden lion tamarin spends the majority of it's life inhabiting and  moving around in the trees. The golden lion tamarin has sharp nails that are almost claw-like in appearance which helps the golden lion tamarin to move around in and climb the trees more easily. The paws and tail of the golden lion tamarin are often slightly black in colour.  

The golden lion tamarin is an omnivorous animal so the golden lion tamarin feasts on a mixture of plants and animals. The golden lion tamarin eats sweet fruits, berries, leaves, insects and small mammals and reptiles that coexist in the tree tops.  

Like, many other species of monkey, the golden lion tamarin is a diurnal mammal meaning that it is awake and hunts for food during the day and sleeps during the night. The biggest predators of the golden lion tamarin are nocturnal animals such as snakes, wild cats and rats which can reach the golden lion tamarins in their resting place in the trees. However, golden lion tamarins often sleep in nesting holes or small hollows in the trees which can make it difficult for large nocturnal predators to get to them.  

Golden lion tamarins live together in groups (known as troops) with each golden lion tamarin troop patrolling their territory which can be as large as 100 acres (400,000 square meters). The golden lion tamarin troop is led by the breeding male and female and fights often occur between golden lion tamarin troops over their territory.  

Golden lion tamarins usually breed once a year from September to March, although it is known for a female golden lion tamarin to have more than one litter per year. After a gestation period of around 4 months, the female golden lion tamarin will give birth to twins. The baby golden lion tamarins are looked after by the mother golden lion tamarin until the baby golden lion tamarins are around 3 months old and are then big enough and strong enough to start looking after themselves. Only 50% of all golden lion tamarin babies are thought to survive their first year of life.  

Today the golden lion tamarin is an endangered species, a sad side effect of drastic deforestation within the golden lion tamarin's environment. It is thought that only 2% of the golden lion tamarin's forest habitat is still standing meaning that golden lion tamarin troops are being forced closer together. Today, the majority of the wild golden lion tamarins inhabit a reserve made up of swampy forest close to the Brazilian capital of Rio de Janeiro.
		 	      

	      Giraffe Classification and Evolution
The Giraffe is a long-necked, hoofed mammal that is natively found grazing in the open woodlands of sub-Saharan Africa. The Giraffe is the tallest living animal on land and despite it's height is mostly closely related to the much smaller and solitary Okapi, that is found elusively dwelling in the dense tropical forests. There are nine recognised sub-species of Giraffe that are found in differing geographic locations and vary somewhat in the colour and pattern of their spot-like markings. Although the Giraffe would have once been found across sub-Saharan Africa and even in parts of North Africa, today they are extinct from much of their historically vast natural range with only small, isolated populations remaining in a handful of regions in central Africa. Further south however, Giraffe populations are considered to be stable and are even growing in some areas due to an increase in demand for them on private ranches.  
Giraffe Anatomy and Appearance
The Giraffe has an enormously long neck which allows it to exploit the leaves and vegetation that are too high up for other animals to find. Despite their length, the neck of the Giraffe actually contains the same number of bones as numerous other hoofed mammals but they are simply longer in shape. The Giraffe's elongated neck leads into a short body, with long and thin, straight legs and a long tail that is tipped with a black tuft that helps to keep flies away. The Giraffe tends to be white in colour with brown or reddish markings that cover it's body (with the exception of their white lower legs). The markings of each Giraffe are not only unique to that individual but they also vary greatly between the different Giraffe species in size, colour and the amount of white that surrounds them. All Giraffes though have large eyes that along with their height give them excellent vision, and small horn-like ossicones on the top of their heads.  
Giraffe Distribution and Habitat
Previously found even in North Africa, today the remaining Giraffe populations are restricted to parts of sub-Saharan Africa with the largest concentrations being found in National Parks. Giraffes inhabit open woodlands and savannah where using their height they are able to see for great distances around them to watch out for approaching danger. The nine different Giraffe species are found in varying countries on the continent, each exploiting their local ecological niche. Due to the fact that Giraffes feed on vegetation that is high in the trees but also too woody for the mouths of smaller herbivores, they are also able to remain in areas where domestic grazing has obliterated the plant species close to the ground, forcing the species that feed on them to move on. Giraffes throughout Africa though have been drastically affected by the loss of vast regions of their natural habitats.   
Giraffe Behaviour and Lifestyle
The large size of the Giraffe means that it must spend a great deal of time eating which it tends to do the most during the more tolerable heat of the morning and evening. During the hot midday sun, Giraffes rest in more shaded regions where they (like a number of their relatives) regurgitate their food known as cud, before then consuming it again. Small herds comprised of a number of females and their young spend both the day and night together to protect their offspring from predators, but male Giraffes are much more solitary often roaming over large areas in search of a fertile female. If however they come into contact with a rival male, the two will begin to bump heads and interlock their necks as a way of establishing a dominance hierarchy, with the winner earning the right to mate with the local females.  
Giraffe Reproduction and Life Cycles
Giraffes breed year round and after finding a female to mate with, the male Giraffe will resume his solitary ways. After a gestation period that lasts for 15 months, the female Giraffe gives birth to a single infant (twins are rare) that already stands at two meters tall and has it's unique markings. Giraffe calves look the same as adult Giraffes but simply become even bigger and more elongated as the grow and mature. After birth, the female Giraffe will often keep her calf away from the rest of the herd for an average of 15 days and the calf will then be weaned when it is just over a year old. Male Giraffes are able to breed a year later than females, but are sometimes not successful until they are nearly eight years old. Although both male and female young Giraffes will join small groups males tend to become more solitary with age, where females remain together but will often wander between different herds.  
Giraffe Diet and Prey
The Giraffe is a herbivorous animal that has evolved to be the height that it is so that it has less competition for food on the higher branches of the canopy. Giraffes are known to eat up to 60 different species of plant throughout the year and do so by grabbing onto branches with their long, black tongue (that can grow up to 18 inches long) and using their tough prehensile lips and flattened, grooved teeth are able to strip the leaves off the branches. Giraffes most commonly eat from acacia trees but also browse for wild apricots, flowers, fruits and buds along with eating seeds and fresh grass just after the rains. Giraffes get 70% of their moisture from their food so need to drink very little but when they do come across clean water, they must splay their front legs (which are longer than the back) in order to get their head close enough to the ground to drink.   
Giraffe Predators and Threats
Despite being the tallest land animal in the world, the Giraffe is actually preyed upon by a number of large carnivores that co-inhabit the dry savannah. Lions are the primarily predators of the Giraffe that use the strength of the whole pride to catch their victim, but they are also preyed upon by Leopards and Hyenas. Giraffes rely on the vast open plains so that they can have the best view possible of their surroundings but if a predators does get too close, Giraffes kick their attacker with their large, heavy feet to defend themselves. Young calves however, are much more vulnerable and rely on the protection of their mother and the herd. Sadly though, around 50% of young Giraffes do not make it past the age of 6 months due to predation. All Giraffes are also threatened by hunting from Humans with populations having completely disappeared from certain areas.   
Giraffe Interesting Facts and Features
Even though Giraffes feed higher than any other animal, males actually still feed at higher levels than females to avoid competing with each other for food. They stretch their necks higher up which also possibly gives them an advantage when watching out for predators. If danger is sighted, Giraffes will instantly sprint away and can run at speeds of more than 30mph for short periods of time. Interestingly enough though they are not actually able to trot as their body shape and size means they trip over and so must instantly go from walk to run. Due to the elongated height of the Giraffe and it's large sensitive eyes, they are able to see for some considerable distance and have the greatest range of vision of any animal on land.  
Giraffe Relationship with Humans
The Giraffe today is seen as a major tourist attraction and is one of many people's must-see species when the go on safari. However, Giraffes have been hunted by people and also have been severely affected by their encroachment on their natural habitats which has led to vast population declines across Africa and even the extinction of the species in some countries. In southern parts of Africa though, Giraffe populations are even growing in some areas as they are becoming more and more popular as game on private ranches. However, due to hunting and habitat loss Giraffes have lost half of their once vast natural range with the majority of wild individuals found in a number of Africa's large national parks.  
Giraffe Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Giraffe is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future due to the fact that the majority of Giraffe populations are currently stable and are in fact increasing in some areas. They are however, still affected by both hunting and habitat loss with populations further north becoming sparser and more isolated from one another. A few of the nine Giraffe species are now listed as either Threatened or Endangered.
		 	      

	      Quetzal Classification and Evolution
The Quetzal is a medium sized bird that is found inhabiting the moist, tropical rainforests of Central America from southern Mexico right down into Panama. There are six sub-species of Quetzal that are found in varying geographic locations including the Crested Quetzal, the Golden-headed Quetzal, the White-tipped Quetzal, the Pavonine Quetzal, the Eared Quetzal and the most famously known Resplendent Quetzal, all of which belong to the Trogon family of birds. The Quetzal is an immensely coloured animal with metallic plumage and is widely considered to be one of the most strikingly-beautiful birds in the world. They are most well known for the long tail feathers of the males.  
Quetzal Anatomy and Appearance
The Quetzal is an incredibly coloured bird with males displaying a bright metallic green or blue on most of their bodies besides the deep red of the chest and belly. The male Quetzal also has a distinctive tuft of golden green feathers that form a crest on top of their heads and immensely long twin tail feathers that can grow up to a meter in length. Although females do not grow such an impressively long train they are of a similar colouration to their male counterparts with their plumage not being quite as bright. The deep red of the chest is often much duller or even grey (as is the metallic green) and they have grey or bronze coloured heads edged with green. As with other members of the Trogon family, the feet of the Quetzal are unique with two toes facing forward and two back on each foot that aid the Quetzal when perching high in the trees.  
Quetzal Distribution and Habitat
The Quetzal is found throughout the mountainous rainforests of Central America where they tend to prefer high mountain ranges at altitudes of between 4,000 and 10,000 feet. The Quetzal inhabits moist, tropical forests in areas that are cooler, contain dense vegetation and that are incredibly moist. Cloud forests are one of the most successful habitats for the Quetzal where the high moisture levels cause there to be a great deal of fog in the forest. Quetzals live in holes in the trees close to the top of the canopy that they have either built themselves using their powerful beaks, or ones that have been abandoned by Woodpeckers. The striking plumage of the Quetzal means that these birds are perfectly camouflaged amongst the abundance of vegetation surrounding them.  
Quetzal Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Quetzal is thought to be a relatively inactive bird and is rarely seen on the forest floor as the design of their feet makes them very weak for walking on. The Quetzal perches high up in the tree canopy where their calls are nearly as distinctive as their appearance. They make soft, deep noises that can be very loud and they are known to use different calls depending on the situation. The Quetzal is most vocal when there is plenty of mist at dawn and dusk and rarely call during very sunny or windy days. Although the calls of the males tend to be louder than those of the females, during the mating season the sounds made are described as being "whining". The Quetzal is also known to make whistle-like calls at dawn and dusk to stake it's claim on it's territory.  
Quetzal Reproduction and Life Cycles
Quetzals use their strong beaks to make holes in rotting trees so that they can nest. The female between one and three eggs in the hole which are incubated by both the female and the male alternately. However, due to the fact that the male Quetzal has tail feathers that can grow up to 3ft long, they are often seen sticking out of the nest when he is sitting on the eggs. Incubation lasts for up to three weeks and when the chicks hatch they are born with their eyes closed and are fed by their parents until they are strong enough to begin moving about. Quetzal chicks can usually fly by the time they are three weeks old and once they are confident enough, they will flee the nest to find a territory of their own (although are known to remain close to their father for their first few years).   
Quetzal Diet and Prey
The Quetzal is an omnivorous animal that is a skilled hunter, swooping down and catching its prey before eating it whilst still in the air. They have a predominantly fruit-based diet and particularly favour small avocado-like fruits that belong to the laurel family, and are known to gather in vast numbers around fruiting trees. When fruits are scarce, the Quetzal also eats small animals including Insects and Lizards along with Frogs, Snails and larvae to provide it with the nutrition that it's body needs. The Quetzal plays a vital role in maintaining it's surrounding environment as the seeds from fruits and berries are spread throughout the forest in their droppings.   
Quetzal Predators and Threats
Despite the fact that the beautifully coloured feathers of the Quetzal provide this bird with good camouflage in the forest, they are not particularly strong flyers and instead rely more on hopping between the branches. The Quetzal is therefore relatively easy prey for other tree-dwelling animals to catch and is preyed upon by mammals such as the Kinkajou, along with squirrels and birds of prey including Hawks and Owls. The biggest threat however to the existing Quetzal population is loss of habitat as Human settlements and agriculture encroach more and more and their native habitats. The Quetzal is also commonly captured to be kept in captivity as a tourist attraction, although few rarely survive in these conditions.  
Quetzal Interesting Facts and Features
Although the male Quetzal is most distinctively known for it's incredibly long tail feathers, they do not begin to grow them until they are at least three years old with many Quetzal individuals not reach sexual maturity until they are nearly six. The Resplendent Quetzal is also commonly known as the Guatemalan Quetzal and is not only the nation's national symbol, but the currency used in Guatemala is actually known as the "quetzal". The Quetzal belong to the 'Trogon' family of birds which is the Greek word for "gnawing", which is a distinctive trait to these birds.  
Quetzal Relationship with Humans
The Quetzal was seen as a sacred animal to ancient native people including the Aztec and the Maya and was often referred to as The Rare Jewel Bird of the World, along with regularly being depicted in native art. The long, bright tail feathers of the males were also used in garments worn by royalty in particular. Today however, although the Quetzal is still a treasured species of many countries including both Guatemala and Costa Rica, their numbers are declining due to both Human interference in their natural habitats and the capture of them to be displayed in captivity.   
Quetzal Conservation Status and Life Today
The Quetzal is today considered to be a species that is Threatened in it's surrounding environment as population numbers in their distinctive habitats have been falling. Although there are protected areas of forest where the Quetzal cannot be disturbed, they are becoming ever popular tourist attractions both for bird watchers and in animal institutions. The Quetzal however, does not survive very successfully in a captive environment meaning that they are captured in the wild on a fairly regular basis, leading to declining population numbers in certain parts of their natural range.

		 	      

	      Gorillas are the biggest of the worlds primates and live in the forests in select parts of Africa. The gorilla population is sadly much lower than it used to be meaning that gorillas are an endangered species.  

Gorillas are herbivores, eating vegetation, fruits, shoots, berries and leaves. An adult male gorilla is able to consume up to 27 kg of food everyday.  

Gorillas are thought to be the most closely related to chimps and humans. It is said that the DNA of gorillas is 98-99% identical to human DNA!!  

The gorilla is a very sociable animal inhabiting the African wilderness if groups from around 5 to 30 gorillas. The gorilla spend most of their time eating, sleeping and grooming the other gorillas. Gorillas move about by walking on their knuckles which helps to support the gorillas weight  

The gorilla is considered to be a highly intelligent animal on a similar level with humans and dolphins. The real extent of the gorillas intelligence is unknown, however one gorilla bred in captivity was successfully trained in human sign language.  

The senses of a gorilla are very similar to the senses of the human and include hearing, taste, touch, smell and sight, although the sight of the gorilla is not quite as acute as the sight of the human but the gorilla is thought to be able to see in colour vision.  

The gorilla spends the night sleeping in a nest which the gorilla makes out of leaves and other plant materials. The nest of the gorilla is shaped like a bowl and is where the mother gorilla will sleep with the baby gorillas.  

Despite what many people think, the gorilla is not an aggressive animal as the gorilla is known to be shy and peaceful in nature. The gorilla will generally only display aggressive behaviour towards another animal if the gorilla feels under threat but the gorilla will only tend to make lots of noise rather than attacking an unwanted intruder. 		 	      

	      There are two main species of gopher, the pocket gopher and the Richardsons ground squirrel, both of these species of gopher are found in North America. The gopher is a small squirrel-like rodent which lives in burrows underground.  

The gopher digs large networks of tunnels and subterranean chambers which are referred to as gopher towns. These gopher towns contain an extensive network of tunnels that often result in the disruption of agriculture and landscapes.  

The gopher towns can stretch for vast distances through mountainous terrain and often contain thousands of gopher residents. The adult gophers tend to situate themselves at the front of the gopher town and whistle to the others when the adult gophers spot potential predators or sense nearing danger.  

Gophers are small animals, usually around 15cm in length and a quarter of a kilogram in weight this however is slightly dependent on the species of gopher.  

The gopher is a true hoarding mammal as the gopher stores the food that the gopher finds in its cheek pouches before taking the food back to the gopher burrow, where the gophers are known to collect astonishing amounts of food.  

The presence of a gopher can be determined by the mound of dirt that can be seen on the surface of the ground. In a similar way to the mole, the tunneling of the gopher creates a large amount of dirt being pushed out behind it, and this therefore creates the gopher mound.  

Some species of gopher, such as the Richardsons ground squirrel, are known to hibernate during the cold northern winters. Baby gophers will usually hibernate at the beginning of Autumn in their first year of life, but the adult gophers often begin their hibernation in the middle of the summer, around July time! The gophers hibernate until the spring, when the male gophers emerge from hibernation first in order to establish their territories before the female gophers wake up.  

Gophers are omnivorous animals with the diet of the gopher being predominantly comprised of nuts, seeds and berries along with grass, grains and insects which is where the gopher gets the majority of its protein from. The gopher however, has a number of natural predators mainly because of the size and abundance of the gopher in certain areas. The natural predators of the gopher include large birds, badgers and coyotes and of course, the human, who is known to kill the gopher as an agricultural pest.   		 	      

	      The green bee-eater (also known as the little green bee-eater) is a small species of bee-eater bird found throughout parts of Africa and Asia. The green bee-eater is one of 26 species of bee-eater, a group of birds that a primarily found throughout Africa and in parts of Asia and the Middle East.  

The green bee-eater is found on grasslands and in open forests on both the African and Asian continents, and is widely distributed across sub-Saharan Africa from Senegal and Gambia to Ethiopia, the Nile valley, western Arabia and Asia, from India to Vietnam. In Asia, the green bee-eater is usually seen on the lowland plains but these colourful litter birds can sometimes be found up to 6000 feet in the Himalayas.  

The green bee-eater is a small sized bird, rarely growing to more than 18cm in length. The green bee-eater is an easily distinguishable bird due to it's bright green plumage and attractive long tail-feathers. The green bee-eater also has a long, but sharp and narrow black beak which is perfectly designed for catching flying insects.  

The green bee-eater is known to be a slow starter in the mornings and may be found huddled next to one another with their bills tucked in their backs well after sunrise. The green bee-eater is also known to sand-bathe more frequently than other bee-eater species and will sometimes bathe in water by dipping into water in flight. Green bee-eaters are usually seen in small groups and often roost communally in large numbers of up to 300 birds.  

Like other bee-eater species, the green bee-eater primarily feeds on insects. More than 80% of the green bee-eater's diet is comprised of honeybees and the rest is mainly made up of other bee species along with numerous species of flying insect. The green bee-eater is an omnivorous animal and will also eat fruits and berries along with ground-dwelling insects when it needs to supplement it's diet.  

Due to the small size and colourful appearance of the green bee-eater it is a target for numerous predators across it's natural range. Larger birds of prey are the primary predators of the green bee-eater along with smaller mammals and reptiles that prey on both the birds and their eggs.  

Green bee-eaters nest between May and June in tunnels dug into the sandy banks. Females lay an average of 5 small, glossy, white eggs which are incubated for two weeks by both the breeding pair and others that have come to help. The green bee-eater chicks are cared for by their parents until they fledge (leave the nest) before they reach a month old.  

Today, the green bee-eater is classified as a species that is in least danger of immediate extinction in the wild. However, the decline in both their native habitat and bee population numbers around the world, could have devastating consequences for this plucky little bird. 
		 	      

	      The grasshopper is a medium to large sized insect and the grasshopper is found (close to grass) all over the world. Grasshoppers are best known for their ability to jump incredible heights and distances.,  

Most grasshopper individuals grow to about 2 inches long although larger grasshoppers are found on a fairly regular basis that grow to more than 5 inches in length. The grasshopper has wings meaning it can migrate over long distances when the weather gets too cold.  

There are 11,000 thousand known species of grasshopper on Earth, that live in grassy areas such as fields and meadows and forest and woodland. Like all insects, all species of grasshopper have a three-part body that is made up of the grasshopper's head, it's thorax and the abdomen. Grasshoppers also have six legs, two pairs of wings, and two antennae.   

The antennae of the grasshopper are known to be remarkably long and can often be longer than the grasshopper's body, although the grasshopper's antennae and the grasshopper's body are normally about the same size. Grasshoppers use their long antennae in order to make sense of their surroundings.  

Grasshoppers have six jointed legs that are incredibly powerful for such a small creature, as grasshoppers are able to jump extraordinary distances. The two back legs of the grasshopper are long and powerful and are just for jumping, where the four front legs of the grasshopper are primarily used to hold onto prey and to help it to walk.   

Despite their large size, grasshoppers are herbivores animals and have a diet that consists solely of plant matter. Grasshoppers eat grasses, weeds, leaves, shrubs, bark and numerous other species of plants that surround them.   

The grasshopper is also a stable food source for many predators around the world including reptiles, insects, small mammals and birds. It is common for humans to eat grasshoppers in places like Asia and Africa where the bigger species of grasshopper are found, and there is a less readily available alternative protein source.    

The female grasshopper lays an egg pod that contains a couple of dozen grasshopper eggs in the late autumn to early winter depending on the area. The female grasshopper inserts her egg pod into the soil so that it is a couple of inches underground. The grasshopper eggs can take up to 9 months to hatch as they wait until the weather has warmed before breaking into the outside world.   

When the first baby grasshopper (known as a nymph) hatches out of it's egg, it tunnels through the soil and up to the surface, and the remaining grasshopper nymph follow. As they get older, the grasshoppers will increase in size until they are adults. The grasshopper only remains in this stage (young and adult) for a few months before it dies meaning that most grasshopper individuals spend the majority of their lives inside an egg.		 	      

	      A goose is a medium to large sized bird found in Europe, Asia and North America. There are around 29 known species of geese around the world including Canadian geese and Snowy geese.  

Geese mate and build their nests in order to raise their baby geese (known as goslings) in the north during the warmer summer months and the geese then migrate south in the winter to the warmer climates when the baby geese are strong enough to fly.  

Geese tend to have the same mating partners for their entire lives, and if not all of it then most of it. The bond between male and female geese partners is very strong and they will often spend most of their time together with both the male goose and the female goose building the nest and raising their young.  

Geese are omnivorous birds but mainly feed on insects, grubs, small fish and plankton in the water. Geese spend a great deal of time on the water and have special adaptations such as webbed feet which make their aquatic life easier.  

Geese have a number of natural predators although, due to the size and strength of a goose, predatory animals don't always have an easy time if they fancy goose for dinner. The main predators of the goose are foxes, wild dogs, raccoons and birds that predominately prey on the goose eggs and newborn baby geese. Humans are among one of the most common predators of geese, as geese are hunted all around the world for their meat and feathers.  

Geese are strong and hardy birds and are known to get to old ages, even in the wild. The average lifespan of a goose is between 20 and 30 years but a number of geese individuals have been known to live for much longer.  

Geese are known to have extremely strong wings as they migrate long distances every year to the warmer climates. Due to the fact that the wingspan of a goose is so large (normally one and half times the size of the goose's body), and the wings of the goose are so strong, a goose is known to be able to inflict severe damage to humans should it become threatened or annoyed!  

Not only do geese flap their wings to intimidate unwanted company, but they are also known to make a loud hissing noise. If these methods of defence fail, it is not uncommon for a goose to simply charge at the intruder hissing and flapping it's wings all at the same time.  

The term geese is normally used to refer to these birds in general, but more particularly a female. The term gander is generally used to refer to a male.. The baby geese are referred to as goslings and a group of geese on the ground is called a gaggle with geese flying in formation being called a wedge or a skein.		 	      

	      Giant Panda Bear Classification and Evolution
The Giant Panda is a species of bear that is found in the mountains of central and western China. One of the most famous and easily identifiable animals in the world, the Giant Panda is also one of the rarest and is under immense threat in it's natural environment, primarily from habitat loss. The Giant Panda is unique among bears as they do not hibernate, have very small babies at birth and survive on a diet that is almost entirely vegetarian. Since the Giant Panda was first discovered by a French naturalist in 1869, it has become a global symbol for conservation with the World Wildlife Fund using it as their logo. The Chinese people also see the Giant Panda as a symbol of peace and numerous efforts have been made to try and protect the remaining populations in their native habitats.   
Giant Panda Bear Anatomy and Appearance
The Giant Panda is a medium to large sized bear that like other species has a large head, short tail and a long muzzle with a large nose, which gives them an excellent sense of smell. The thick fur of the Giant Panda is creamy-white in colour with large patches of black on the limbs, shoulders, ears and nose, and distinctive black patches around their small eyes. The Giant Panda eats almost only bamboo and so has a number of physical adaptations to help with its consumption including an extension of their wrist bone which acts a bit like a thumb, allowing the Giant Panda to grip onto bamboo stems. They also have large jaws with strong jaw muscles that along with their flat molars, allow the Giant Panda to crush bamboo stems and leaves in order to extract the nutrients.   
Giant Panda Bear Distribution and Habitat
Historically, the Giant Panda would have been found throughout the lowlands of the Yangtze River Basin but increased Human activity in these areas has pushed the Giant Pandas high up into the mountains. Remote populations are still found in six different mountain ranges in central and western China, where they inhabit broadleaf and coniferous forests with a thick bamboo under-storey at elevations between 5,000 and 13,000 feet. These high-altitude forests are cool, cloudy and moist and are generally subjected to a high level of rainfall. It is thought that the unique colouration of the Giant Panda may help them to blend into these misty forests when they are foraging for food. It is however, the loss of these habitats to deforestation that is the biggest threat to the Giant Panda today as they rely almost solely on bamboo to survive.  
Giant Panda Bear Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Giant Panda is a solitary animal that occupies a territory marked with secretions from scent glands and scratch marks on trees. Male Giant Pandas roam home ranges more than double the size of a female's, with his territory overlapping those of several female Giant Pandas with which he holds breeding rights. As bamboo is not particularly nutritious, the Giant Panda must eat lots of bamboo every day and can consume up to 30kg of bamboo leaves, shoots and stems which is roughly 40% of it's body weight. Giant Pandas therefore dedicate between 12 and 15 hours a day to munching bamboo which they do by sitting down, allowing their front paws to grip onto the plants. Even though the Giant Panda appears to spend it's whole day either eating or sleeping, they are also known to be good at climbing trees and can even swim well when needed.  
Giant Panda Bear Reproduction and Life Cycles
Giant Pandas breed between March and May when the female begins to indicate her want to mate by making a series of groans and bleats to attract a male. After a gestation period that lasts for around five months, the female Giant Panda gives birth to one or two cubs in the base of a hollow tree or cave. Panda Bear cubs are very underdeveloped at birth measuring as little as 15cm and weighing only 100g, they are made even more vulnerable by the fact that they are also blind and hairless and don't begin to crawl until they are nearly three months old. Even if a female gives birth to twins she can only care for one that rides on her back until it is 6 months old and is then able to precariously trot beside her. Panda Bear cubs are weaned when they are around a year old but don't leave their mother until they are 18 months old. Some cubs may stay with their mother for a few years until she becomes pregnant again and they leave to establish a territory of their own.   
Giant Panda Bear Diet and Prey
Despite being classified as a carnivorous animal (not to mention a species of bear), the Giant Panda eats almost exclusively bamboo in the forest surrounding it. Known to consume more than 30 different species of bamboo plant, Giant Pandas feed on different parts of the plant at different times of year in order to get the most out of it. Capable of eating up to 30kg of bamboo a day, the Giant Panda uses it's strong jaws to crush the various plant parts into a more easily digestible paste. Spending more than half of their day eating, Giant Pandas also supplement their diet with other plants including grasses and fruits, as well as rodents and birds on occasion. Even though they can eat nearly half of their body weight in bamboo parts in just one day, the Giant Panda still needs to drink water and does so from mountain streams that are supplied by the melting ice and snow higher up the slopes.  
Giant Panda Bear Predators and Threats
Due to the large size and unique habitat of the Giant Panda, adults have no natural predators within their cool, bamboo-filled world. Cubs however are completely helpless until they are at least a year old and are preyed upon by larger predators such as Leopards and Birds of Prey. Humans however are the biggest threat to Giant Pandas in the Chinese mountains as they have hunted these remarkable animals for their unique fur, almost to extinction in some areas. Although harsh punishments for poaching have now slowed hunting down, Giant Pandas are under extreme threat from habitat loss in the form of deforestation for timber and land clearance for agriculture. They have therefore been forced into small and isolated pockets of their once vast natural range, and have been subjected to severe declines in their population numbers.  
Giant Panda Bear Interesting Facts and Features
The Giant Panda has always fascinated people and therefore goes by a number of different names with it's scientific name meaning "cat-foot black and white" and it's Chinese name translates literally to "Giant Bear Cat", as the Giant Panda has slits for pupils in their eyes much like a cat. They are also known as the Bamboo Bear by locals due to the enormous amount that they consume. Giant Panda cubs are so small at birth that they weigh about the same as an average mouse and at 100g are roughly 0.001% of their mother's weight. In the Qinling Mountains in China's Shaanxi Province, a small population of brown and white Giant Pandas can be found existing amongst the standard black and white ones. Giant Pandas communicate between one another using a series of calls, with 11 different Giant Panda noises having been identified.  
Giant Panda Bear Relationship with Humans
The Giant Panda has been admired by people for hundreds of years but more for their beautiful black and white pelts in the past. Since their discovery by the western world and the realisation of their rareness in the wild, Giant Pandas have become one of the most well-known of the world's large animals with increasing projects and efforts being put in place to try and save them from extinction. They have however been drastically affected by increasing Human activity in their native habitats which has ultimately led to vast population declines and the isolation of the remaining populations. Despite their seemingly cuddly appearance though, the Giant Panda is a species of bear and although attacks on Humans are rare, it is not unheard of for harm to be caused to people (particularly those who attempt to enter captive enclosures).  
Giant Panda Bear Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Giant Panda is listed by the IUCN as being an animal species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and faces extinction in wild in the near future if more is not done to protect it. Although the Chinese government has created 33 Giant Panda reserves and more than 50% of it's natural habitat is now protected by law, less than 1,500 individuals are thought to remain in the wild. Extensive research continues to go into preventing the Giant Panda from becoming extinct but it simply cannot survive without it's unique bamboo forests.
		 	      

	      The Russian blue cat is also known as the Archangel blue cat, and is thought to have originated from the port of Arkhangelsk in Russia. The Russian blue cat was brought to the United Kingdom in the 1800s where it has been domestically bred since.  

The Russian blue cat has a blue/silver coloured coat and the Russian blue cat is known to be highly intelligent and playful but tend to be timid around strangers. The Russian Blue can be easily trained.    

The Russian blue cat has also been known to develop close bonds with their human companions and are highly sought after due to the Russian blue cats personality and unique coat.  

The Russian blue cat has a long, slender body with short fur. The fur of the Russian blue cat grows in a double cat which helps to provide the Russian blue cat with additional insulation in the bitter northern winters.  

The Russian blue cat is not only popular because of its calm and loving nature, but the Russian blue cat is one of the few domestic breeds that are not known to be prone to illness or carry genetic defaults.		 	      

	      Radiated Tortoise Classification and Evolution
The Radiated Tortoise is a relatively large species of Tortoise, natively found on the island of Madagascar. Although having evolved in similar environments to other star-patterned Tortoises from around the tropics, the Radiated Tortoise has more striking and complex markings than those of the Indian Star Tortoise, for example. The Radiated Tortoise is also known as the Sokake in Madagascar, and although they are critically endangered in the wild, it is widely believed that they are the most beautiful of all Tortoise species. Naturally then, they are a popular exotic pet, which is thought to be one of the main reasons for their demise.  
Radiated Tortoise Anatomy and Appearance
The male Radiated Tortoise tends to be slightly larger than females and the two sexes are also easily identified as the tail of the male Radiated Tortoise is often substantially longer than that of the female. Radiated Tortoises have high-domed, dark brown to black shells, covered with bright yellow or orange intricate star-like patterns. Unlike other star-patterned Tortoises, the centres of the stars on the carapace of the Radiated Tortoise are not raised, giving their domed shell a smoother appearance. The legs, tail and head are a yellowish colour with a black spot on top of the head, which varies in size between individuals. The appearance of this Tortoise actually camouflages it perfectly in the long grasses.  
Radiated Tortoise Distribution and Habitat
The Radiated Tortoise is natively found on the island of Madagascar in the far south and south-western parts of the island. They inhabit dry regions of brush, thorn forests, tall grasses and woodland, with the whole population found in an area 10,000 km squared. Isolated populations can still be found on the higher plateaus as well, but these habitats are incredibly fragmented and the existence of the Tortoise here is not thought to go on for much longer. The Radiated Tortoise is thought to have disappeared entirely from around 40% of it's historical range, due to both habitat loss and exploitation.  
Radiated Tortoise Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like many other Tortoise species found around the world, the Radiated Tortoise generally leads a fairly solitary life, although it is not uncommon for a number to be found grazing together (particularly around the breeding season). They are incredibly adaptable to the changing seasons from dry and arid to the heavy rains of the monsoon, when they are said to almost dance in the rain to shake it off. Radiated Tortoises also emit a loud screeching sound when startled to hopefully intimidate and then scare off the unwelcome predator. The Radiated Tortoise is a peaceful animal but will become aggressive towards individuals that it sees as a threat.  
Radiated Tortoise Reproduction and Life Cycles
Radiated Tortoises usually begin mating when they are around half their adult size, and it starts with the male bobbing his head up and down to court his female. Once mated, the female digs a nest in the ground where she lays up to 5 small eggs (although 10 ore more is not uncommon). After an incubation period of between 4 and 7 months, the young Radiated Tortoises hatch measuring between 3 and 4 cm. Although they are born with their detailed star-patterns, the markings are white until they grow older. Radiated Tortoises usually live for 40 to 50 years, but some have been known to be more than 100.  
Radiated Tortoise Diet and Prey
The Radiated Tortoise is a primarily herbivorous animal, and although the majority of it's diet is comprised of plant matter, they are known to supplement their nutrition by eating a small animal every now and again. Despite this, they need a high fibre and low protein diet to survive the most successfully. Leafy greens, grasses and herbs make up the bulk of the Radiated Tortoise's food, along with other plant matter like fruits, berries and prickly pears. In a book written about Tortoises from around the world, the Radiated Tortoise is said to be particularly partial to eating foods that are red in colour.  
Radiated Tortoise Predators and Threats
In their natural habitats, these ground-dwelling animals are prey to a number of predators including Snakes and large Birds Of Prey. Radiated Tortoises have a couple of defence mechanisms to try to protect them seeing that they can't run away, including making a loud screeching sound and the ability to pull their soft limbs and head inside their hard shells. Humans are however, the biggest threat to the Radiated Tortoise both through habitat destruction and exploitation. The Radiated Tortoise is commonly consumed and captured for the exotic pet trade.  
Radiated Tortoise Interesting Facts and Features
The oldest living reptile was a Radiated Tortoise known as Tu'i Malila that was given to the Royal family in the mid 1700s by explorer Captain James Cook, and she died in 1965 at around 250 years old from natural causes. Although Radiated Tortoises are native to Madagascar, they have been introduced to the islands of Reunion and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean to boost their Tortoise populations. Despite the fact that many Radiated Tortoises are eaten in Madagascar, it is actually people coming from other parts of the island, as the local tribes living alongside Radiated Tortoises believe there is a taboo against both touching and eating them.  
Radiated Tortoise Relationship with Humans
Humans are the biggest threat to Radiated Tortoises, from habitat destruction to their consumption. It is thought that remaining populations have seen an 80% reduction in numbers over just three generations and those inhabiting south Madagascar's higher plateaus are even worse affected. Despite the fact that the Radiated Tortoise is now one of the most protected Tortoise species in the world, an estimated 45,000 are killed every year across the southern part of the island, just for food. The beauty of the Radiated Tortoise has also meant that they are in high demand in the illegal exotic pet trade.  
Radiated Tortoise Conservation Status and Life Today
Due to a dramatic fall in population numbers, the Radiated Tortoise has been listed as being Critically Endangered and is therefore under severe threat from becoming extinct in the wild forever. However, captive breeding programs have been relatively successful and are crucial to the survival of this species in the future. Due to the laws about exporting listed species though, there are few found in captivity, most of which are in the USA where they were taken before the species was declared to be at imminent risk from extinction.


		 	      

	       The Greater Swiss Mountain Dog has a reputation of combining protectiveness with a gentle nature, particularly with respect to its love of its family, especially children.  

These dogs are strong, active, and remarkably agile for their size. A Greater Swiss Mountain Dog can be trained for weight-pulling competitions and/or to pull carts behind them carrying goods or even a person. They also excel at herding and pack hikes. Also, unlike other mountain dogs, they do not drool excessively. Prospective owners need to be prepared to give them lots of time and attention.  

Swissies have a very strong pack instinct. They are protective of their family and training is important for them to learn their place. They want the pack to be together and get distressed when a member wanders off.  

The Greater swiss mountain dog is part of the Sennenhund family of dogs that include the Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, the Bernese Mountain Dog, the Appenzeller and the Entlebucher Mountain Dog, all of which are similar in colour and temperament but vary in size. The Sennenhund dogs were originally used to assist in general farmwork but they are also used as mountain rescue dogs in some areas of the Swiss mountains today.  

The Greater swiss mountain dog is one of the larger species of dog, and adult males can often exceed 70 cm in height. As with other breeds of dog, the male Swissie is generally slightly larger than the female. The Greater swiss mountain dog has a short, thick coat and has beautiful markings that are black, white and tan in colour.  

The Greater swiss mountain dog is thought to be one of the oldest of the Sennenhund breeds, as it was originally used for pulling carts. The Greater swiss mountain dog almost became extinct at the beginning of the 20th century when the need for dogs to pull carts was on the decline. Despite this though, the population has been saved and the Greater swiss mountain dog has been linked to the St Bernard, as despite the obvious colour difference, these two breeds of dog have a very similar build and are strongly believed to have very close ancestors.		 	      

	      The raccoon is a medium sized bear-like mammal that was originally only found in North America. Due to the deliberate introduction of the raccoon into other countries, the common raccoon can also be found now in Europe and Japan.  

The average raccoon is around 70 cm from the raccoons nose to the tip of the raccoons tail. A fully grown raccoon can weigh up to 10kg and can live for up to 20 years in captivity. Raccoons in the wild however, tend to have a much lower life expectancy.  

The raccoon originally inhabited densely wooded areas and large forests but today the raccoon has adapted to living in mountainous and wetter habitats. The raccoon has also moved closer to human communities as the raccoons are able to find food very easily but many homeowners consider them to be pests.    

Raccoons are grey, omnivorous animals surviving on a diet consisting of insects, plants and small animals such as fish and the occasional bird. Raccoons tend to be nocturnal but it is not uncommon to spot a raccoon during the day.   

The most distinctive feature of the raccoon is the black mask found around the eyes of the raccoon. The raccoon has a thick layer of fur which keeps it warm during the cold winters and raccoons also have extremely sensitive and and dexterous front paws with raccoons having been observed turning door knobs and opening jars.  

Raccoons forage for their food and raccoons are often found close to water. Raccoons have been observed washing their food in water before consuming it! Although the reasons for this behaviour are not really known, it is thought that the sense of touch of the front paws of the raccoon is heightened when wet.    

Their are around ten different species of raccoon that range in size but differ little in appearance, found throughout the Americas. The sense of touch is the most important for a raccoon and their agile front paws are covered in a spiny coating to protect them when they are not being used to aid eating.  

Raccoons tend to mate in the late winter to early spring from January to March. However, more southernly raccoon species have been known to mate later with the mating season often lasting until June. After a gestation period of around 2 months, the female raccoon will give birth to roughly 5 baby raccoons, also known as kits or cubs.  

The raccoon kits are born blind and deaf, with both senses appearing with the first month. Baby raccoons are not born hairless but instead have a layer of light coloured fur, with the distinctive black mask being visible from birth. Raccoon kits are normally about 10 cm long at birth and weigh around 75 g.  


 Raccoon Foot Facts 

Raccoons have four feet with five toes both their front hind feet which give the raccoon more stability when running and climbing.
The underneath of the feet of the raccoon are bare-soled and flat which makes the raccoon waddle rather than walk.
The front feet if the raccoon are similar to the hands of a human in both appearance and dexterity to allow to the raccoon to easily hold onto things.
The larger back feet of the raccoon give the raccoon more power when running and balance when the front feet of the raccoon are in use.
Raccoons have very nimble fingers on their front feet that enable them to untie knots, turn doorknobs and even open jars.

  
 Raccoon Teeth Facts 

Raccoons have 40 teeth including four long and sharp canine teeth at the front of the mouth of the raccoon.
Raccoons use their front hand-like feet to hold onto their food before using their teeth to chew it up and swallow it.
The sharp canines in the front of the mouth of the raccoon are followed by the premolars which increase in size as they go into the mouth of the raccoon.
The raccoon uses its molars and premolars to grind up and chewing their food until they are able to swallow it.
Raccoons are known for their unique habit of washing their food when they are close to water, however raccoons will not pass up a tasty treat if there is no water around to wash it in.

		 	      

	      The red knee tarantula (also known as the red-kneed tarantula) is a type of burrowing tarantula that inhabits the pacific mountains of Mexico. The red knee tarantula is most well known for it's hairy body and the red bands that are along it's legs.  

The red knee tarantula inhabits the complex scrub-forest habitat and semi-desert regions where there is an abundance of food. The red knee tarantula needs to burrow and so is rarely found on rock faces.  
 
The Red Knee tarantula is found in Mexico, south-western United States and Panama. They are quite common now to be kept as pets as they are slow growers and they have a beautiful body in colour and shape. The red knee tarantula also has a bite that could hurt a human but would not be harmful.  

The red knee tarantula typically grows to around 20cm in length but some red knee tarantula individuals have known to become much bigger. The red knee tarantula has a relatively long lifespan for a spider as many get to be older than 30 years of age.   

The female red knee tarantula is often bigger than the male red knee tarantula and the female red knee tarantula also tends to be more aggressive. Female red knee tarantulas tend to live longer than the smaller male red knee tarantula due to the fact that they have a more fierce temperament.  

The red knee tarantula is a carnivorous animal and preys on a number of other animals in it's natural environment. The red knee tarantula mainly eats insects along with small mammals, birds and reptiles that fall into the burrow where the red knee tarantula is hiding.  

Due to the relatively small size of the red knee tarantula, the red knee tarantula has many predators across Central America. Birds, large reptiles and various mammal species all prey on the red knee tarantula, often waiting until the red knee tarantula comes out of it's burrow before attacking it.  

The female red knee tarantula lays an average of 40 eggs which are laid in a silk sack generally between the months of May and August. The red knee tarantula babies hatch out of their eggs in about a month and it takes the red knee tarantula babies nearly a year to reach adulthood.		 	      

	      There are only four species of river dolphin still existing in river, lakes and estuaries in certain parts of the tropical Southern Hemisphere. River dolphins are also known as freshwater dolphins with one species however inhabiting saltwater estuaries known as the La Plata dolphin.  

The Amazon river dolphin (Boto or Pink river dolphin) is found in the Amazon river and the joining rivers, with the Amazon river dolphin being the largest species of freshwater dolphin. The Amazon river dolphin feeds on crabs, fish and catfish and is rarely hunted by animals other than humans.  

The Ganges river dolphin (Indus River Dolphin) is found in Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan. The Ganges river dolphin is primarily found in the Ganges and Brahmaputra Rivers and their joining rivers in India, Bangladesh and Nepal. The Ganges river dolphin has long teeth that can be seen even when the dolphins mouth is closed.  

The Chinese river dolphin (Baiji) was once found only in the Yangtze River in China but sadly said to have become extinct in 2006.  

Some river dolphins are thought to be blind, but other river dolphins still possess incredibly poor eye sight and many are therefore killed when accidentally coming into content with fishing boats and nets. Like other species of dolphin, the river dolphins hunt and communicate using echolocation, a process which involves the detection of low frequency waves that are emitted by all the living things.  

River dolphins are mainly found in darker, slow-moving waters but are known to venture into grasslands and underwater forests during the flood seasons. It is now, when the water is at the highest level that the baby river dolphins are born underwater.  

River dolphins have a long, narrow beak and flexible neck which helps them to catch prey quickly and enables the river dolphins to turn quickly and more easily in the water. River dolphins are normally found on their own or in pairs but large groups of river dolphins will often come together to feed.
		 	      

	      The grey reef shark is one of the most common species of shark found in the warm waters of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Grey reef sharks are generally found in the coastal regions and along continental shelves from the Middle East to the islands in the deep Pacific.  

Grey reef sharks are one of the smaller species of shark with adults reaching a maximum length of around 2m long and baby grey reef sharks being around 50cm long at birth.  

Grey reef sharks feed on reef fish, squid and shrimp. The grey reef shark is not thought to pose a great threat to humans and the grey reef shark has been noted to be inquisitive towards divers.   

Other species of reef shark include the white tipped reef shark, the black tipped reef shark and the Caribbean reef shark, all of which belong to the same family so have similar characteristics to the grey reef shark.  

The grey reef shark has a very distinctive shark-like appearance which includes the long slender body of the grey reef shark, large fins and a rounded snout. The grey reef shark tends to gather together in schools with other grey reef sharks during the day, but the grey reef shark is generally more active at night.  

The grey reef shark tends to move about slowly gliding silently through the water at speeds that often do not exceed a few miles an hour and the grey reef sharks are commonly known to lay on the ocean floor for long periods of time. However, when the grey reef shark detects food in the water, the grey reef shark is known to suddenly become very active and quick, with the grey reef shark often becoming fairly aggressive if there is food about.  

The grey reef shark has very few natural predators in its coastal, underwater habitat as many larger water-bound carnivores tend to lurk in the deeper waters. When the grey reef shark feels under threat, particularly from larger species of shark or from humans diving, the grey reef shark tends to react in a very distinctive way with the grey reef shark arching its body up and moving its head slowly from side to side whilst the grey reef shark is swimming along. The grey reef shark is thought to do this to intimidate unwanted company rather than in preparation to attack it.		 	      

	      Red Panda Classification and Evolution
The Red Panda is a cat-sized species of carnivorous mammal that is found inhabiting the temperate mountain forests on the slopes of the Himalayas. As their name suggests, they are related to the larger and more famous Giant Panda (although the exact closeness of their connection still remains uncertain to science), along with also sharing a number of characteristics with the Raccoon and so Red Pandas are classified in a family of their own. The Red Panda is also known by a number of different names in their native regions including the Lesser Panda, the Red Cat-Bear and as the Fire Fox in Nepal. Like their much larger cousin, the Red Panda relies on bamboo to feed and with rapid deforestation of these unique areas there is less and less for these animals to eat, which has ultimately led to the Red Panda being listed as being an endangered species.  
Red Panda Anatomy and Appearance
The Red Panda is about the same size as a large housecat, with a cat-like face and a long, bushy tail. Their rusty coloured thick fur covers their body with the exception of their almost white coloured ears, cheeks, muzzle and spots above their eyes. The Red Panda also has reddish brown stripes that run down either side of their white muzzle, along with alternating light and dark rings on their tails. The Red Panda also has semi-retractable claws to aid climbing and stability amongst the branches and strong, tough jaws which they use to chew on bamboo. Like the Giant Panda, the Red Panda also has an extended wrist bone which acts a bit like a thumb, allowing them to hold onto bamboo whilst they are chewing it. The Red Panda also has dense fur which helps to keep it warm during the cold winter along with having thick and woolly fur on the soles of their feet which not only helps to keep their feet warm but also prevents them from slipping on the wet branches.  
Red Panda Distribution and Habitat
The Red Panda is found inhabiting the temperate forests in the Himalayas at altitudes of between 1,800 and 4,000 meters. These high mountain slopes tend to be covered in deciduous hardwood forest with a bamboo under-storey that is crucial to the Red Panda's survival. Their historical range extended through Bhutan, Nepal, India, Myanmar and China where their range overlaps that of the even rarer Giant Panda, but today the Red Panda is extinct from certain areas and population numbers are rapidly declining in others. Due to the fragile ecology of their native, mountain forests and their reliance on eating bamboo, the Red Panda is being pushed into smaller and more isolated pockets of their once wide range with other factors including climate change affecting the lack of abundance of bamboo.  
Red Panda Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Red Panda is a nocturnal and generally solitary animal with the exception of males and females coming together to mate during the breeding season. Red Pandas spend the daylight hours sleeping in the branches high in the tree canopy with their long, bushy tail wrapped around them to keep them warm. Although they are known to feed in the trees, they usually come down to the ground after dusk to begin foraging in the safety of the darkness. The Red Panda is a territorial animal that marks it's patch with droppings, urine and releasing a musky secretion from it's anal glands. They are also known to communicate between one another using short whistles and squeaks. The Red Panda is a strong and agile climber that not only sleeps safely in the branches during the day but also can dart up a trunk if threatened by predators aided by it's sharp claws.   
Red Panda Reproduction and Life Cycles
Red Pandas usually breed between January and March and after a gestation period that lasts for around four months, the female gives birth to 1 - 5 cubs that are born blind and although they begin to open their eyes within a couple of weeks, the eyes of the Red Panda cubs don't fully open until they are about a month old. Before her cubs are born, the female Red Panda builds a nest in a tree-hole, roots or bamboo thicket which is lined with leaves, moss and other soft plant material. Red Panda cubs may not leave the nest until they are three months old and are strong enough to negotiate the tricky branches. They feed solely on bamboo until they are old enough to stomach other foods and reach their full adult size after about a year. There is however a high mortality rate in young Red Pandas with up to 80% not reaching full adulthood.  
Red Panda Diet and Prey
Although the Red Panda belongs to the carnivorous group of mammals, their diet is almost vegetarian as bamboo shoots comprise the majority of their food. However, as the Red Panda is a mammal it has a short digestive system meaning that although bamboo holds little nutrition anyway, they are unable to get the most of their meals. Unlike the Giant Panda though, the Red Panda will also eat a variety of other foods to supplement it's diet like acorns, berries and grasses, along with grubs, mice, lizards, chicks and birds' eggs. Along with it's excellent sight, smell and hearing the Red Panda also has long, white whiskers on it's snout which help it to navigate through the dense vegetation in the darkness of night, when it is most actively foraging for food.   
Red Panda Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that Red Pandas inhabit high-altitude mountain forests, they actually have fewer natural predators than they would have living further down the slopes. Snow Leopards and Martens are the only real predators of the Red Panda along with Birds of Prey and small carnivores that prey on the smaller and more vulnerable cubs. The biggest threat to the Red Panda however is people who have affected this species mainly through deforestation of their incredibly unique habitats. Due to Human encroachment, illegal hunting and poaching there have been drastic declines in the Red Panda population numbers with these populations also being pushed into more separate, isolated areas. One of the main concerns with this is that these populations will although be threatened by inbreeding leading to less successful individuals in these areas.  
Red Panda Interesting Facts and Features
Living high in the cold mountain climates means that Red Pandas are well adapted to keeping warm with their dense fur and blanket-like tail. However, on really cold days Red Pandas have been known to sunbathe high in the canopy to warm themselves up whilst sleeping during the day. A study conducted in 2001 found that 79% of the Red Pandas reported where found within 100 meters of the nearest body of water, indicating that a good water source may also to be crucial to their already strict habitat requirements. Evidence also suggests that Red Panda reproduction rates have been declining which is believed to be related to the decline in the foods that they eat in order to survive and reproduce successfully.  
Red Panda Relationship with Humans
Red Pandas have been admired by people for years but many of the experiences that we have with them are in zoos and animal institutions as these rare and secretive animals can be incredibly hard to spot in the wild. This is however one of the factors in their demise as one Indian village reported that 47 Red Pandas were captured and sold to zoos around the world in just one year. Human interference of their unique and specialised habitats though is believed to be the biggest reason for the decline in Red Panda numbers throughout the Himalayas with deforestation mainly in the form of logging being one of the primary culprits. As with the Giant Panda, the Red Panda relies heavily on high-altitude bamboo thickets to survive and without them it has no-where else to go.   
Red Panda Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Red Panda is listed on the IUCN Red List as being an animal species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and is therefore severely threatened by extinction in the near future. There are estimated to be less than 3,000 Red Pandas remaining in the wild with the majority of these inhabiting small protected zones within national parks. A number of captive breeding programs have also been established in Asia, Europe and North America and appear to be having relative success in their work.

		 	      

	      Puffin Classification and Evolution
The Puffin is a small species of seabird that is closely related to other auks such as guillemots. There are four different species of Puffin that are found inhabiting the colder conditions of the northern Atlantic which are the Atlantic Puffin, the Tufted Puffin, the Horned Puffin and the Rhinoceros Auklet that despite it's name and differing appearance remains one of the four Puffin species in existence today. Best known for their brightly coloured, triangular beaks, Puffins are one of the most distinctive of all seabirds and although they are not considered to be an endangered species, Puffins are extinct from many areas where they would have once been found in abundance. Despite their penguin-like stance and appearance, Puffins are able to fly extremely well and have been known to reach speeds of more than 50mph for short periods of time.  
Puffin Anatomy and Appearance
Puffins are small sized birds that have thick black and white plumage that helps to keep them warm in the cold conditions of the northernmost, Northern Hemisphere. They have black necks, backs and wings with white underparts and whitish feathers on the sides of the face. Their feet and legs are a dull yellow colour during the colder winter months, changing to a bright orange during the breeding season. Puffins have broad, flattened bills that are large and triangular in shape and well known for their brightly coloured markings. Red runs down the entire length and across the tip with the base being of a more greyish colour with intervening yellow markings and in the same way as their legs and feet, the bill of the Puffin is more brightly coloured during the warmer breeding season, becoming duller as they shed for the colder winter months. Although both males and females are almost identical in appearance, males tend to be slightly larger in size than their female counterparts and can therefore be more easily identified when the two sexes are seen together.  
Puffin Distribution and Habitat
Puffins are found inhabiting the sea and coastal regions of the Northern Hemisphere most commonly in the Atlantic, Pacific and in parts of the Arctic Circle. The exact location of the Puffin is largely dependant on the species with the the Atlantic Puffin inhabiting coastlines throughout the North Atlantic Ocean, from Denmark in the east to Canada in the west, and from north Norway all the way down to the Canary Islands and Spain in the south but not in the north Pacific. The Tufted Puffin and the Horned Puffin however, are absent from the north Atlantic and instead can be found in large colonies in the northern Pacific Ocean from the west coast of Canada to Japan and possibly even Korea, although their status there is not known. Despite the fact that populations in many regions still remain stable, Puffins are absent from much of their once vast natural range today and are continually threatened by increasingly levels of human activity both on land and also out at sea where they are particularly threatened from environmental disasters such as oil spills.  
Puffin Behaviour and Lifestyle
Like other species of auk (and indeed numerous other seabirds), Puffins are highly sociable animals that are found on grassy clifftops in vast colonies that can contain as many as two million individuals. However, it is not just on land that they are known to stick together as when they are feeding out at sea, Puffins are known to form "rafts" to ensure that they are better protected from their numerous predators due to the technique of safety in numbers. As well as being fast and efficient in the air, Puffins are also incredibly adept and agile swimmers that are known to dive to depths of up to 60meters for as long as two minutes at a time (although the average dive usually only lasts for around 20 seconds), in order to maximise their chances of catching plenty of fish both for their themselves and for their young. During the winter months, Puffins spend most of their time hunting out at sea sometimes many miles from land before returning to the cliffs during the warmer months to breed making it fairly difficult for scientists to fully understand the status of the species.  
Puffin Reproduction and Life Cycles
Puffins have an annual breeding season that lasts throughout the warmer summer months from April until mid-late August, which is done so in large colonies on the soft, grassy clifftops. By using their beaks like a shovel and their webbed feet with sharp claws to excavate the unwanted soil, they are able to dig burrows into the ground that can be more than a meter in depth and over a few meters long in order to keep their valuable egg or young safely hidden from predators such as gulls. Puffins mate for life and the female Puffin lays a single white egg that is incubated by both parents until it hatches up to six weeks later in the burrow, covered in medium-brownish feathers. The chick is looked after and fed by both parents who bring it fish back from the sea in their beaks until it becomes independent, leaving the nest at around two months old. Puffins are able to reproduce themselves from between four and five years of age and can live for up to 20 years in the wild, although older adults are not unheard of with some individuals reaching the age of thirty.  
Puffin Diet and Prey
Despite the fact that Puffins are technically omnivorous animals, they have a solely carnivorous diet that is largely comprised of small fish and supplemented with animal plankton during the leaner winter months. Puffins primarily prey on sandeels, capelin, herring and sprat along with the occasional squid, mollusc or crustacean which they hunt for under the surface of the water on dives that average around 20 seconds at a time. Their uniquely shaped beaks are also perfectly designed for carrying fish thanks to the layer of spines that are found on the upper park of the beak and on their tongue. By carefully catching small fish that are arranged from head to tail along the entire length of the bill, Puffins are able to continue fishing for more without losing any of the catch that they already have stored, commonly collecting up to 30 fish before returning back to land to feed their hungry chick.   
Puffin Predators and Threats
Even though Puffins are relatively small in size, they have fewer native land predators than expected due to the fact that they nest high on the clifftops and in burrows that are more than 3 foot underground with gulls, hawks, eagles and foxes being the most common land predators of adult Puffins and their young. In areas that are closer to human habitation, Puffins are also preyed upon by domestic cats and dogs with rats often targeting their valuable eggs that are hidden in the burrows underground. Out at sea, Puffins are prey upon by large birds such as skuas and large gulls that compete for the same food that the Puffins are hunting. The biggest threat to Puffins today though are people and the impact that their increasing activities are having on the Puffin's natural habitats. Coastal development, tourism, oil spills and the introduction of non-native predators into their natural habitats has led to drastic declines in population numbers throughout their historically vast natural range.  
Puffin Interesting Facts and Features
Puffins are excellent swimmers but also incredibly fast in the air and are able to launch very quickly from land or the water when needed. Puffins are so fast that they are able to fly at speeds of up to 55mph (88km/h) for short periods of time, with their little wings beating as much as 300 - 400 times every minute. Puffins are often seen with rows of small fish lined up along the length of their brightly coloured, triangular beaks particularly during the breeding season when they are fishing to feed their young chicks. Visiting the breeding grounds up to 10km away often can be a tiring process for such a small bird so they commonly collect as many fish as they can in one go. Although they are usually known to bring back between 4 and 30 small fish such as sandeels, one individual was recorded with a whopping 62 stuffed into its bill.   
Puffin Relationship with Humans
Ever since humans have inhabited the most northerly regions of the world they have hunted Puffins both for their meat and also for their eggs to provide people with an easy source of protein during the warmer summer months when the birds nest on land. With more and more inhabitants though, populations began to drastically suffer leading to the extinction of many Puffin colonies throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Humans have also played an enormous part in disturbing their natural habitats in general with increasing amounts of coastal development and over-tourism that with it brings less land and more rubbish for these small birds to contend with. Another massive problem has been the impact of fishing that has led to severe declines in the Puffin's natural prey species and this coupled with increased ocean activity and more devastatingly, oil spills, has led to Puffins completely disappearing from many regions where they were once found in abundance.  
Puffin Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, all four Puffin species are considered to be of Least Concern of becoming extinct from their native environments in the near future as although populations are still decreasing, their numbers remain relatively high and they still occupy a large range throughout the Northern Hemisphere, although they are particularly threatened by pollution. Oil spills from large tankers are one of the most dangerous pollutants to Puffins as they get easily stuck in the thick oil and become covered in it and so are unable to fly or swim. In the 1800s and 1900s, the Puffin was commonly hunted for it's meat and eggs which led to a severe decline in the world's Puffin population, even completely eliminating some Puffin colonies. In the 21st and late 20th century, however, the Puffin has enjoyed better protection and conservation work is being carried out, particularly in North America, to help to save the remaining Puffin populations.  
		 	      

	      The Geoffroy's tamarin is a small species of monkey found in the forests of South America. The Geoffroy's tamarin is also known as the Red-crested tamarin or the Rufous-naped tamarin, and is thought to be closely related to the cottontop tamarin.  

The Geoffroy's tamarin is found in the tropical forests of Panama and Colombia in South America, where the Geoffroy's tamarin spends the majority of it's life in the trees. The Geoffroy's tamarin is more commonly found on the Pacific coast rather than the Atlantic.  

The Geoffroy's tamarin has has a very distinctive "v" shape mark on it's head and has no fur on it's face. The Geoffroy's tamarin is highly territorial and is known to make numerous different calls and threats to approaching danger in the surrounding forest.  

The Geoffroy's tamarin is a diurnal primate which means that the Geoffroy's tamarin is most active during the day and rests in the safety of the tree tops during the night. Geoffroy's tamarins are very sociable animals and inhabit their territory with their rest of the Geoffroy's tamarin troop which generally have between 3 and 9 members. Geoffroy's tamarin troops are led by the eldest female and have predominantly male members.  

The Geoffroy's tamarin is an omnivorous animal meaning that the Geoffroy's tamarin hunts both plants and other animals in order to survive. Fruits, insects and green plants make up the majority of the Geoffroy's tamarin's diet along with small rodents and reptiles, eggs and tree sap.  

Due to the relatively small size of the Geoffroy's tamarin, it has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Wild cats, dogs, snakes and birds of prey are primary predators of the Geoffroy's tamarin, along with humans who are destroying their natural habitat.  

The Geoffroy's tamarin usually breeds between the months of April and July, when the female Geoffroy's tamarin will give birth to twins (or a single infant) after a four to five month gestation period. The male Geoffroy's tamarin's carry and groom infants more than the females do, but females clean the infant more than the males do. Older siblings are also known to contribute to infant care, although infants prefer to be carried by their parents than by their siblings. Infant Geoffroy's tamarins become mobile at 2 to 5 weeks, and begin eating solid food at 4 to 7 weeks. They are independent at 10 to 18 weeks and are fully weaned at 15 to 25 weeks. Sexual maturity is attained at about 2 years of age.  

Today, the Geoffroy's tamarin is not considered to be a species that is in danger of becoming extinct, although the Geoffroy's tamarin population in the wild of South America has been declining in recent years primarily due to habitat loss.
		 	      

	      Quokka Classification and Evolution
The Quokka is a small marsupial that is natively found in parts of the south-west of Australia and on only two islands off the south-west coast. The Quokka is one of the smallest Wallaby species in the world, and most distinctively differs from other Wallabies with their short and barely-furred tail and small hind legs. Out of the roughly 50 known Kangaroo and Wallaby (and other marsupial) species on the continent however, the Quokka is one of three whose ancestry is still fairly hazy today. The fact that the Quokka browses for food rather than simply grazing makes it quite different to other species, but despite all this, many agree that they are most closely related to the Rock Wallaby.  
Quokka Anatomy and Appearance
The Quokka is a small species of Wallaby that has a rounded and compact body. Their hind legs and tail are much shorter in comparison to those of many Wallaby species, but allow the Quokka to hop through the thick vegetation and tall grasses with immense speed. The dense fur of the Quokka is fairly coarse and usually brown or grey in colour, with reddish tinges around the face and neck, and generally lighter in colour on the underside. Along with it's rounded body, the Quokka also has small and rounded ears, and a rounded snout that is tipped with a black nose. Unlike other Wallaby species, the tail of the Quokka has hardly any fur on it at all and they also don't need it to balance whilst they are hopping along.   
Quokka Distribution and Habitat
Historically, the Quokka had quite a wide distribution and was once found throughout the coastal regions of south-western Australia. Today however, the Quokka has been restricted to three remote regions, only one of which is actually on the Australian mainland. The most numerous populations of Quokka are found on Rottnest Island and on neighbouring Bald Island, with a few isolated groups also inhabiting the bushland that surrounds the city of Perth on the mainland. In these island environments, Quokka are most commonly found in thick forest, open woodland and areas of scrub that are close to fresh water. Their preferred habitats are always close to water, and the Quokka can also be found along the edges of swamps.  
Quokka Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Quokka is a very sociable and friendly animal that inhabits south-western Australia in small family groups, which are dominated by the males. Despite this though, the Quokka is not known to be territorial with up 150 individuals known to have over-lapping home ranges. Although they are known to share these habitats peacefully most of the time, fights between males are not unheard of, particularly on a hot day when they compete for the most sheltered spots. The Quokka is a nocturnal animal that spends most of the hot day, resting in the shade of the trees and will often return to the same spot every day. At night, the Quokka then begins to browse for food using tunnels through the long, grasses to move about unseen.   
Quokka Reproduction and Life Cycles
The breeding season for the Quokka tends to occur in the cooler months between January and March, when a single joey is born after a gestation period of just a month. Like all other marsupial babies, the joey manages to crawl into it's mother's pouch completely unaided, when it then attaches itself to one of the female's teats. The Quokka babies suckle from their mother in the pouch for around 6 months whilst they continue to develop. At this time, the joey emerges for the first time and begins to explore it's surroundings but remains close to the female, continuing to suckle on her milk for at least another couple of months. In captivity though, breeding can take place all year round once the individual is mature enough to mate at about a year old.   
Quokka Diet and Prey
Like other Wallaby species, the Quokka is a vegetarian, meaning that it's herbivorous diet is solely comprised of the surrounding plant material. The Quokka most commonly feeds on different grasses that line that tunnels that they make through the dense vegetation. They are also known to eat leaves, and fruits and berries when they are available. Although the Quokka mainly browses for food on the ground, they are also known to climb about a meter or so up into the trees, and also swallow their food without chewing it. The Quokka then regurgitates the undigested material in the form of a cud, which is also eaten. They have no need to drink vast amounts of water and are said to be able to go for months without drinking at all.  
Quokka Predators and Threats
Before European colonists reached the coastal regions of south-west Australia, the Quokka populations were thriving and were widespread throughout the area. With people however, came domesticated predators like Cats, Foxes and Dogs and their settlements also attracted wilder animals including Birds of Prey and Dingoes. Since the introduction of these predators to the Quokka's habitat, their population numbers have dropped considerably. They are also now restricted to small pockets of their natural habitat on mainland Australia due to loss of habitat to growing Human settlements, as the demise of their daytime resting sites is thought to be linked to the declining population numbers.  
Quokka Interesting Facts and Features
Quokka family units are most commonly found in areas close to one another, where there is a decent source of fresh water. Even though they prefer these moist environments however, Quokka's are known to actually gather most of their moisture from the vegetation that they eat, meaning that they can also be found in regions that are actually quite far from the nearest river or stream. Despite the obvious differences between the Quokka and other Wallaby species, their small size has enabled them to become masters of the undergrowth. The Quokka creates tunnels that they use as runways through the dense vegetation, which they are then able to hop extremely fast along when threatened by a predator.  
Quokka Relationship with Humans
Since the 1930s, the Quokka populations have been isolated in three remaining areas (two of which are on islands) because of the introduction of foreign predators. The Red Fox that came to Australia with European settlers has actually caused the most damage to this ground-dwelling marsupial, as they were eaten on both the mainland and on the islands that the Quokka inhabited along the south-west coast. Now however, the Quokka populations on Rottnest Island in particular, attract numerous tourists every year and although the Quokka are very friendly towards these people, foods like biscuits that are fed to them, often upset their stomachs.  
Quokka Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Quokka has been listed by the IUCN on their Red List as an animal that is Vulnerable in it's surrounding environment. The highest populations are today found on Rottnest Island, along with Bald Island, where they are thought to be happily sustained due to the lack of Red Foxes. There are however, now concerns over the Rottnest Island population due to increasing development on the island, mainly for recreational purposes.		 	      

	      The flounder is a species of flatfish that is found in the coastal waters of the northern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Flounder are found hiding on the ocean floor at depths from shallow coral reefs to the deepest trench on Earth.  

There are five different species of flounder found in the oceans, and only one of these flounder species (the Japanese flounder) is found in the Northern Pacific Ocean. The summer flounder, the winter flounder and the southern flounder are all found in the western Atlantic Ocean, while the European flounder is found in the colder waters around Northern Europe.  

All five flounder species are very similar in appearance but can vary quite dramatically in size. Flounder can vary from 5 to 25 inches in size depending on the species, but all flounder species have a rounded, flattened body shape with a medium-sized flat tail fin.  

The colours and markings of the flounder are dependant on the flounder species, although all five flounder species have adapted to life in the sand on the sea floor and they are often coloured to be camouflaged into their silty surroundings.  

Flounder are carnivorous and highly predatory animals. The flounder hides on the sand on the sea floor waiting for potential prey, which the flounder ambushes once it has been spotted. Flounder prey on a variety of bottom-dwelling marine species including small fish, shrimp and crabs.  

Due to the secretive nature and good camouflage of the flounder, it rarely spotted by predators. Large fish, sharks, eels, humans, and marine mammals all prey on the flounder when it can be spotted.  

Rather than laying her eggs onto an inanimate object or the leaf of a plant, female flounders release them into the water at the time time as the male flounders release their sperm (this form of fertilisation is known as spawning). Once the eggs have been fertilised, the flounder fry begin emerging from them in just a couple of weeks. 		 	      

	       The Great Danes large and imposing appearance belies its friendly nature, the breed is often referred to as a gentle giant. Great Danes are generally well-disposed toward other dogs, other non-canine pets, wild animals, and humans (including strangers and children).   

Some Great Danes, as with dogs of any breed, may have dominance issues, may be aggressive with other dogs of the same sex, or chase small animals, however, this is quite rare.		 	      

	      The raccoon dog is a small species of canine, native to parts of eastern Asia. As it's name suggests, this wild dog has markings that closely resemble those of a raccoon and has also been known to display similar behaviours including the washing of food. Despite their similarities however, raccoon dogs are not actually closely related to the raccoons found in North America.  

The raccoon dog is now found across Japan and throughout Europe where it has been introduced and appears to be thriving. Historically however, the raccoon dog's natural range stretched through Japan and across eastern China where the raccoon dog is now extinct in many parts. Raccoon dogs are found inhabiting forests and woodland, that is close to water.  

Raccoon dogs are unique canines as they are the only dog-like mammal that hibernates through the winter. Although raccoon dog hibernation is not true hibernation, it means that raccoon dogs are able to sleep through severe snowstorms when there is not enough food to allow them to survive. Raccoon dogs usually become more active again in February when the warmer, spring weather begins to return.  

There are five different species of raccoon dog found across eastern Asia and in parts of Europe, all of which have been severely affected by deforestation of their native woodlands. Raccoon dogs are also known to have incredibly dexterous front paws which come in very handy when trying to catch slippery food in the water and when climbing trees.  

Raccoon dogs are carnivorous animals meaning that they only hunt and eat other animals in order to survive. As raccoon dogs spend a great deal of time close to water, their diet is primarily made up from frogs and fish along with rodents, small birds, eggs and invertebrates such as insects and spiders.  

The wolf is the main predator of the raccoon dog as packs of wolves are known to kill large numbers of raccoon dogs in the spring and summer months when they are also feeding their growing young. Foxes and wildcats are the other main predators of the raccoon dog along with humans who have hunted them for their meat and thick fur.  

Raccoon dog pups are usually born when the summer begins in late April to early May. After a gestation period of up to 12 weeks, the female raccoon dog gives birth to a litter of between 5 and 16 raccoon dog pups which are blind when they are first born. Both raccoon dog parents help to raise their young until they are big enough to become independent and begin hunting for themselves.  

Today, although raccoon dog populations are thriving in their introduced habitats in Europe, wild populations in the far east have been rapidly declining mainly due to over-hunting and habitat loss. 
		 	      

	      The Ragdoll cat has emerged in North America as mixed cat breeding has become more popular. The ragdoll cat is usually part Burmese, Birman, Javanese, Siamese and Persian cat or any of these combinations.  

The Ragdoll cat is known to be one of the larger species of domestic cat and commonly have a slightly larger tummy than other cats, along with a rounded body and short limbs.  

The Ragdoll cat is normally white in colour with the distinctive Siamese cat style brown markings. The ragdoll cat often inherits the long hair and blue eyes from the Persian and Birman cats but this is not always the case.  

The Ragdoll cat is most well known for its calm and affectionate temperament, and its generally easy-going nature. The Ragdoll cat is a relaxed and gentle feline that is also well known for its intelligence.  

The Ragdoll cat is named so because of the way in which the Ragdoll breed is often found to be easy to handle, even said to turn floppy when picked up. Ragdoll cats are known to be much more chilled-out and friendly compared to other domestic breeds.		 	      

	      Sea Lions are found in all climates, in both the north and southern hemispheres and every ocean with the exception of the Atlantic Ocean. The sea lion is often seen around the big harbors of the world where groups of sea lions gather together to feed and bask in the sun.   

The sea lion generally lives in coastal ares where there is a good food supply and land close by for the sea lion to have a rest from swimming and hunting in the water. The sea lion has 4 flippers which the sea lion is able to turn around when on solid ground, allowing the sea lion to walk on land.  

The sea lion is often a popular attraction at zoos and parks, where the sea lions are generally being trained to do tricks with hoops and balls. The sea lion is a popular animal due the intelligence of the sea lion and also because of the quirky character which many sea lion individuals possess.  

Today there are seven different species of sea lion found in waters around the world, These are the Steller sea lion which is also known as the northern sea lion as it is found in the North Pacific Ocean, and the Steller sea lion is the largest sea lion species; the Australian sea lion which is a small species of sea lion found on the south and west coasts of Australia; the South American sea lion, also known as the southern sea lion and is found along the west coast of South America; the New Zealand sea lion which is also known as Hookers sea lion is found around the south island of New Zealand and also the sub-antarctic islands; the California sea lion is found along the coasts of the north Pacific and is believed to one of the most abundant and intelligent species of sea lion today; the Galapagos sea lion is found exclusively around the Galapagos islands and is thought to be a distant relative of the California sea lion.   

The only other sea lion species around was the Japanese sea lion, which was thought to have become extinct sometime during the 1950s. The Japanese sea lion was thought to have been related to the California sea lion and became extinct through hunt and the introduction of commercial fishing.  

Sea lions are sleek and generally carnivorous animals although sea lions are known to eat sea weed and aquatic plants at times. Sea lions are playful marine mammals and can be observed spending hours playing in the water.   

Sea lions generally gather on rocky, coastal land to breed. About a year later, the female sea lion will give birth to a single sea lion pup. Female sea lions tend to give birth to their young on land but it is not uncommon for the female sea lion to give birth to the sea lion pup in the water.   

Sea lion pups are nursed by the mother sea lion until they are about six months old. Baby sea lions learn to swim when they are a couple of months old and it is then that the baby sea lions will go out and learn to hunt with the mother sea lion.  

Sea lions are often seen in large groups of sea lions. Sea lions hunt in groups and in pairs and group numbers increase during the mating season. There have been instances where sea lions have been aggressive towards humans in the water. These acts are thought to be because the sea lions either want to play or they are male sea lions displaying and enforcing their dominance within their terrritory.  
 

 Sea Lion Foot Facts 

The sea lion has flippers in place of where its feet would be in order to help the sea lion move through water quickly, a substance that is eight times denser than air.
In each flipper of the sea lion there are five skeletal digits, like toes, that give the sea lion more movement in its flippers but these are not always visible.
Some species of sea lion are able to rotate their back flippers forward, so they are able to actually walk on all four flippers when on land.
Adult sea lions have five claws on each of their two front flippers which the sea lion use to hook onto prey and to give them more grip when walking on land.
The sea lion uses its front flippers to propel itself through the water with the back flippers acting as stabilisers meaning that they are not used a great deal in swimming.

  
 Sea Lion Teeth Facts 

The sea lion has between 34 and 38 teeth which include incisors, canines, premolars and molar teeth.
The incisors at the front of the mouth of the sea lion are quite small but are very sharp and are used for biting down on and holding onto prey.
The canine teeth that are found behind the incisors in the mouth of the sea lion are large, conical, pointed and often slightly curved and these do most of the hard work.
The molars and premolars in the mouth of the sea lion can vary in number but are very similar and have a slightly cup-like shape.
The teeth of the sea lion are designed for grasping and tearing rather than chewing food and its for this reason that baby sea lions shed their milk teeth before birth.

		 	      

	      The quoll is a medium-sized marsupial, natively found in parts of Australia, Papua New Guinea and Tasmania. The quoll is often known as the native cat, due to the cat-like appearance of the quoll.  

Quolls are found occupying woodland, shrubland and grassy habitats across Australia and New Guinea. Although quolls have been seen climbing trees, the quoll tends to live life on the ground.  

The quoll is a nocturnal animal meaning that it spends the nights hunting and the daytimes hours resting. Unlike many other nocturnal mammals, the quoll enjoys to spend the sunlit days basking in the heat rather than hiding in a crevice or underground.  

There are six different species of quoll, found across Papua New guinea and Australia. The Bronze quoll and the New Guinean quoll are natively found on the tropical island of Papua New Guinea. The Western quoll, the Northern quoll and the Tiger quoll are all natively found on the Australian mainland. Although the Eastern quoll was originally found on the Australian mainland, they are more commonly found on the island Tasmania.  

Although the quoll is an omnivorous animal, the quoll is has a predominantly meat-based diet. Quoll hunt during the darkness of night, searching for small mammals, birds, small reptiles and insects. The quoll also feasts on nuts, grasses and fruits when they are available.    

The quoll (particularly the tiger) quoll is an apex predators in it's environment as they are one of the largest species of carnivorous marsupial in the world. The main predators of the quoll are generally human hunters, large snakes and crocodiles.  

The quoll is a marsupial, meaning that the female quoll has a pouch on her tummy for her young to develop in. The baby quolls are born after a gestation period of just a few weeks, when they crawl up into the mother's pouch. The baby quolls are nursed in the pouch of the female quoll for about 2 months but are not fully independent until they are nearly 6 months old.		 	      

	      The rhinoceros is a large mammal native to Africa and Asia. There are five species of rhino found in the world with 3 out of the 5 species of rhino now considered to be critically endangered. The rhino is thought to be the second biggest land mammal in the world behind the African elephant.   

The five species of rhinoceros are the white rhino (which is the largest species of rhino) and the black rhino which are both native to Africa and are only really distinguished in size as they look fairly similar. The Indian rhino, the Sumatran rhino and the Javan rhino are all native to Asia and are much smaller in size than the white rhino and the black rhino of Africa.  

The rhino averages about 1.5 tons in weight, and the rhino has a tough skin that is roughly 1.5cm thick. The rhino also has a large horn in the middle of its face and some species of rhino have a second smaller horn above the larger one.  

The rhinoceros is a herbivore and eats grasses, leaves, shoots, buds and fruits in order to gain the nutrients that the rhino needs to grow and survive. The average rhinoceros regularly gets to about 60 years old in the wild particularly seeing as they have no real predators apart from human poachers. The rhino is also known to have a fairly small brain in comparison to their large size.  

The rhino is prized for its horn. The horns of a rhinoceros are made of keratin, the same type of protein that makes up hair and fingernails in most animals including humans. Both African species of rhino and the Sumatran rhinoceros have two horns, while the Indian rhino and Javan rhinoceros have just one horn. Rhinos have brilliant hearing and the rhino also has a keen sense of smell, but the rhino is well known for having extremely poor eyesight.  

The rhinoceros is generally found in thick forests and savannas where there is plenty of food to eat and lots of cover for the rhino to hide in. Although the rhino is a herbivore, they are known for their aggressive nature and will often charge towards oncoming predators in order to scare them away. Most rhinoceros individuals that are killed by poachers, are caught out when they are quietly drinking from a water hole and therefore drop their guard. 		 	      

	      Rainforests are forests that get a great deal of rain and have extremely diverse wildlife. Rainforests are found in the tropical regions across the Southern Hemisphere, and contain more than 50% of all living species on Earth. Rainforests typically get an average of 1,850mm of rain every year.  

There are two main types of rainforest habitat, which are the tropical rainforests, and the seasonal rainforests. Tropical rainforests are generally close to the Equator where the climate is warm and the conditions are ideal for plant growth.    

In fact, the rainforests have a total of 170,000 of the world’s 250,000 known plant species (no less than 68%), according to this infographic about the rainforest. What’s more, there are roughly 50 million people living in rainforests around the world. That’s roughly equivalent to the entire population of Australia and North Korea combined.   

Due to the fact that rainforests all over the world are being cut down, a great amount of effort is now being put into protecting these indigenous tribes by governments, charities and international organisations.   

The tropical rainforest tends to have various layers of canopy, with the top layer often reaching up to 75 meters in height. Seasonal rainforests tend to be further away from the Equator and don't have the stable climate of the tropical rainforest. In a seasonal rainforest, the rain all comes at once in what is known as the monsoon, instead of being dispersed evening throughout the year.  

There are different animals and plants inhabiting the different rainforest types. Tropical rainforests are home to a large variety of tall tree species, due to the constant water flow. The trees found in seasonal rainforests however, are generally much smaller in size. Tropical forests also seem to be home to smaller primates and bird species, where larger animals such as tigers and large snakes, inhabit the changing seasonal rainforests.  

More than half of the world's species of plants and animals are found in the rainforest. Rainforests support a very broad array of animals including mammals, reptiles, birds, and invertebrates. Rainforest mammals may include primates, wildcats, and tapirs, and there are also numerous reptiles including snakes, turtles and lizards. Numerous species of birds and insects are found in the rainforests around the world. Fungi are also very common in rainforest areas as they can feed on the decomposing remains of plant and animal life.  

Due to the amount of water and plant life, there is also plenty of food for the smaller animals to eat, meaning that there are also more smaller animals for the larger animals to eat. The animals that live in the rainforest are also well adapted to life there, with many animal species often adopting a tree-dwelling (arboreal) lifestyle.  

The world's forests are thought to be responsible for nearly 30% of the world's oxygen turnover, through the production of oxygen thanks to photosynthesis. However, both the numerous plant and animal species are rapidly disappearing due to deforestation, habitat loss, and biochemical releases into the atmosphere. 


		 	      

	      The two most common species of rat are the black rat and the brown rat. Both species of rat are found in all parts of the world. The rat is generally found in small, dark places and is thought to have originated in Asia before migrating across countries and being accidental passengers on human voyages. The rat is now one of the most widely spread and adaptable animals in the world.  

The rat is a small scavenger mammal that has proved to be a pest in both urban and rural areas where rats are normally present due to an abundance of food. Rats are known to kill smaller livestock on farms, and there is the myth that you are only ever 5ft away from a rat at anytime.  

The rat can also carry and spread disease to a devastating effect although diseases carried by rats are generally not passed on to humans. However, in the middle ages, the black plague wiped out nearly two thirds of the European population. The disease was not caused by the rats directly but was actually caused by infected fleas carried on rats.  

The most distinctive difference between rats and mice is their size. Rats tend to be much larger than mice and it is because of this that new rodent species that are discovered are easily classified as rats or mice.   

In the wild, rats are preyed upon by many different animals including snakes, wildcats and birds of prey. In some cultures rats are hunted and eaten as food by humans. The bandicoot rat is a stable and popular food source in parts of Southeast Asia but it is thought that the eating of rats has not become popular elsewhere due to the eating of rats being socially acceptable in other cultures.  

Today, rats are commonly kept as pets all over the world and are thought to have been bred as pets since the 1800s. Pet rats pose the same health risks to humans as other household animals so are not seen to carry harmful diseases. When tame, rats can be extremely friendly and can be taught to perform selective tasks such as doing certain actions in order to get food.  

Rats are fast breeders and give birth to large litters of baby rats meaning that pet rats of different sexes should be separated at around a month old. Rats are able to start having babies at around 5 weeks of age and female rats give birth to litters of between 6 and 10 baby rats after a gestation period of 22 days.Although rats can live until they are 4 or 5 years old, female rats can no longer have babies after they are about 18 months old.  

Rats are omnivorous animals and eat a mixture of plant and animal matter in order to get all the right nutrients. Rats are known to eat almost anything and the high rubbish levels in cities, as given way to a new generation of over sized super rats. The large rats are much bigger than the average rat and are more dominant in their environment meaning that the smaller rat species tend to suffer as a consequence. 		 	      

	      River turtles are found inhabiting freshwater environments all around the world from slow-moving rivers and streams to the calmer waters of ponds and lakes. There are numerous different species of river turtle found around the world many of which are sadly considered to be endangered species today.  

The Mary River turtle is the most commonly known species of river turtle as they are the most popular freshwater turtles to keep as pets often in artificial aquariums or outside in ponds. The Mary River turtle is native to the Mary River found in Queensland, Australia and was once shipped to pet shops all over the world in the thousands as people liked them due to their small size.  

The yellow-spotted river turtle is one of the largest species of river turtle found in South America. The yellow-spotted river turtle is found in the large lakes and tributaries of the Amazon Basin and are easily identified by the yellow spots (hence the name) on the side of their heads. The yellow spots of the yellow-spotted river turtle are much brighter in the younger individuals and tend to fade in brightness as the yellow-spotted river turtle matures.  

There are a number of river turtle species that share the name of the giant river river turtle. With the exception of the Arrau river turtle which is a flat-shelled river turtle found in the Amazon, most of these giant river turtles are indigenous to south-east Asia. The mangrove terrapin is widely distributed across the continent but is today, critically endangered due to over-hunting and pollution. The giant Asian pond turtle is one of the largest of the river turtle species and is found inhabiting rivers and streams along with marshes and rice paddies throughout Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Burma, Thailand and Malaysia.  

Generally, most species of river turtle have an omnivorous diet that is primarily made up of aquatic plants, grasses and leaves. Many river turtle species also hunt fish and molluscs in the water along with small reptiles and amphibians.   

Due to the relatively large size of the river turtle and the fact that it has a hard, protective shell, there are few animals that prey upon the river turtles themselves. Humans are the main predators of both the river turtle and it's eggs which are eaten as a royal delicacy in many of the river turtle's native regions. Other animals such as foxes. dogs, snakes, birds and even wild pigs eat the precious eggs of the river turtle that are buried in the sand.  

As with other turtle and tortoise species, river turtles are fairly solitary animals but females can be seen gathering together in large groups on river banks to lay their eggs. River turtles can lay between 5 and 100 soft, leathery eggs depending on the species, which are buried in the sand by the female after she has laid them. After a couple of months, the baby river turtles hatch and make straight for the water. The average lifespan of the river turtle is about 30 years.  

Due to excessive hunting and rising levels of pollution in the water, river turtles are extremely vulnerable animals many of which are today considered to be endangered or critically endangered. Programmes around the world have been seen up to try and protect the river turtles mainly from poachers who hunt them for their meat and eggs.
		 	      

	      The robin is a small bird, originally found in only Europe and Asia. The robin today can be found across the world in parts of Africa, North America and New Zealand but all of these robin species are believed to be subspecies of the European robin.  

The European robin has a bright orange/red chest and is the most distinctive bird of the robin family. Despite the bright chest of the European robin, other species of female robin are fairly plain and brown in colour. The female robin is very similar in both size and appearance to the nightingale and the two are commonly confused.  

The New Zealand robin and the North American robin look fairly similar to the female European robin, and all these robins are brown in colour. The North American robin is not to be confused with the American robin which is actually a member of the thrush family rather than being a species of robin. The American robin is named after the European robin due to it's brightly coloured orange chest.  

There are thought to be more than 45 different species of robin found on the Australian continent including Australia, Papua New Guinea and numerous other islands in the South Pacific. These birds are known as Australasian robins and are all small sized, with a stocky build and rounded head.  

Robins are omnivorous birds feeding on a mixture of both plants and animals. The robin primarily eats insects and worms, which it does so by swooping down on them from the perch it has been watching it's prey from. Robins sit on tree branches and in hedgerows watching their prey moving around on the ground before they suddenly fly down to eat. Robins also eat fruits, seeds and berries when they are in abundance during the warmer months of the year.  

Generally, robins do not migrate (particularly those found in the UK). It is known however, that those robins that inhabit areas within the Arctic circle, such as Scandinavia, do migrate south to the warmer climates of the United Kingdom and parts of Europe to escape the bitterly cold winters.  

Robins mate in the late winter to early spring. Female robins build a nest not far from the ground generally in trees or dense hedgerows. It is not uncommon however to find robins nesting is slightly strange places such as holes in stone walls and even in letter boxes. The female robin lays 4 or 5 white coloured eggs that hatch  after an incubation period of just under 2 weeks. Although the male robin does not help to incubate the eggs, male robins are known to bring the female robins food whilst they are sitting on their nest.  

When the robin chicks hatch they are a brown colour and do not develop the bright orange chest of their parents until they are older. The female robin regularly leaves her chicks in order to help the male robin collect food. Both parents are known to feed their robin chicks for the first month, although robin families are known to abandon their original nest after two weeks of the chicks hatching and find somewhere new where food is in greater supply.  

Due to their small size, robins have a number of natural predators in the wild including cats, dogs, foxes, raccoons and even larger birds. Other animals such as rats and snakes are known to eat the eggs of the robin  if for some reason the female robin cannot protect them.		 	      

	      The sea squirt is an immobile filter feeder that live on the ocean floor. Despite their plant-like appearance, sea squirts are actually more closely related to vertebrates than they are to invertebrates such as sponges and coral.  

There are more than 3,000 known sea squirt species found on the seabed around the world, with the majority of sea squirt species being found in the warmer, nutrient-rich tropical waters. Sea squirts can vary from just 3cm to 30cm in length depending on the species of sea squirt and its habitat.  

Sea squirts can be found in variety of colours and shapes due to the fact that their bodies are made of one solid structure (rather than having a skeleton), which is protected by a membrane just a few cells thick. Sea squirts are normally cylindrical in shape, but can also be round or even bell-shaped.  

Sea squirts are filter feeders which means that they feed by filtering the nutritious particles out of the water. Sea squirts filter the sea water through slits in their membranes, taking food and water in and letting waste and excess water out.   

Sea squirts primarily feed on the plankton and nutrients in the water along with the algae that grows on them. Many larger sea squirt species have stick tentacle-like appendages which catch food particles as they float past. Some really large species of sea squirts that are found in the deep ocean, are even known to trap and ingest small animal including fish and jellyfish.  

Due to the fact that sea squirts attach themselves to objects from a very young age, they are often sitting targets for hungry passers. Snails, crustaceans and eels are the most common predators of the sea squirt along with some species of larger fish.  

Sea squirts have both male and female reproductive organs making self-fertilisation possible but unlikely. The sea squirts release their eggs and sperm into the water which become fertilised and part of the plankton. The sea squirt larvae hatches out of the eggs and makes it way down to the ocean floor in search for somewhere to anchor itself.
		 	      

	      The reindeer (also known as the caribou) is found in large herds in the very north of the world. Reindeer inhabit both the Arctic Tundra and the North Pole regions which include parts of North America, Europe and Asia.  

The reindeers hooves adapt to the season so in the summer when the tundra is soft and wet, the reindeers footpads become sponge-like in order to get a bigger surface area on the damp group. In the winter, the reindeers  footpads shrink and tighten, exposing the rim of the hoof which cuts into the ice and crusted snow to stop the reindeer from slipping.   

The changes to the reindeer hooves during the winter enables the reindeer to dig down through the snow to the reindeers favourite food, a lichen known as reindeer moss.   

The reindeers coat has two layers of fur, a thick woolly undercoat and a longer-haired overcoat which consists of hollow, air-filled hairs which helps to keep the reindeer warm.  

The reindeer travels the furthest of any land mammal with these migrations often containing thousands of reindeer. The caribou of North America can run at speeds up to 50 mph and can travel as many as 3,000 miles a year.The most extensive migrations occur in spring and fall. The largest reindeer migrations take place in the spring and autumn when the reindeer are hungry and in search of food.  

The reindeer is often an attempted target for the large predators that exist in the Arctic Circle but the reindeer is very fast and moves in enormous groups so the reindeer is not easy to catch. Arctic wolves, polar bears, brown bears, humans and the occasional shark are amongst those animals that hunt the reindeer.		 	      

	      The sand lizard is a small species of lizard that is found across Europe and into parts of Asia. The sand lizard is one of only three species of lizard natively found in the UK along with the slow worm and the common lizard, and is protected in Britain (and much of Europe) as populations are low in most areas.  

The sand lizard is found inhabiting grass and heath-lands along with coastal dunes throughout it's native range which extends from the United Kingdom, east across Europe to Mongolia. Despite having a fairly wide distribution however, sand lizard populations are sparse and are completely extinct from certain areas of their native habitats.  

The sand lizard is a relatively small, yet "stocky" lizard species that is usually of a light brown colour, with darker markings running down it's back. Male sand lizards however, are known for their remarkable colour change, as their skin turns from a dull brown to a bright green during the mating season, in order to more easily attract a female to mate with.  

As with other reptiles, the sand lizard is a cold blooded animal and must therefore, first warm itself up before it is able to hunt for food. Sand lizards spend the daytimes basking on a rock in the hot sun, which warms their blood up, re-charging them for an evening of hunting. The brownish colour of the sand lizard's skin acts as a good camouflage when the sand lizard is sun-bathing.  

Like many other lizard species, the sand lizard is a carnivorous animal meaning that it has to hunt and eat other animals in order to survive. Sands lizards primarily feast on a variety of invertebrates including insects, grasshoppers and spiders, which they watch closely using their excellent sight before powerfully grabbing hold of their meal with their strong tongue.  

The small size of the sand lizard, coupled with it's sluggish nature when warming up during the day, makes these animals a prime target for hungry predators. Birds, dogs and cats are the most common predators of the sand lizard, along with habitat destruction or total loss caused by humans.  

Sand lizards mate in the early summer when males begin to show off their new green patterns in order to attract and impress a female mate. Female sand lizards lay their eggs in the sand where they are incubated by the sun and not by the mother. As with other lizard species, very little care is provided by the parents for their young who are independent from a very early age.  

Today, habitat loss has pushed these lizards into smaller and smaller areas and sand lizard populations across Europe are now under threat. The sand lizard is considered to be an animal at threat from extinction in the wild and is protected in much of it's natural range.
		 	      

	      The Sumatran tiger is the smallest subspecies of tiger in the world, with male Sumatran tigers rarely growing to 2.5 meters in length. The Sumatran tiger is today a critically endangered species of tiger with only around 500 thought to be in the wild.  

The Sumatran tiger is natively found only on the Indonesian island of Sumatra where the Sumatran tiger can be found inhabiting a variety of habitats from low and highland areas, to mountainous jungle and peat swamp forests.  

The Sumatran tiger is the smallest species of tiger meaning that the Sumatran tiger is able to move through dense jungle with greater ease than it's larger cousins.   

The Sumatran tiger is quite different in appearance to other tiger species as the stripes of the Sumatran tiger are narrower than those of other tiger species and they also have larger manes. Sumatran tigers have slightly webbed paws which allows them to swim more efficiently after their prey.   

The Sumatran tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting it's prey by stalking it until the Sumatran tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. Sumatran tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the Sumatran tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the Sumatran tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Sumatran tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Sumatran tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Sumatran tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Sumatran tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Sumatran tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the Sumatran tiger is considered to be a critically endangered species. Modern estimates suggest that the current wild Sumatran tiger population is as low as 400 to 500 individuals.		 	      

	       St. Bernards are gentle, friendly, and generally fond of children. It is strikingly similar to that of the English Mastiff, since it was used to redevelop that breed when it was near extinction after World War II.  

Extremely loyal, this breed is eager to please its owners but due to its size, it is essential that proper training and socialization begin early in life while the dog is still a manageable size. An unruly St Bernard presents a problem for even a strong adult so control needs to be asserted from the beginning.  

 St Bernards will bark at strangers and their size makes them good deterrents against most intruders although their aggression as guard dogs rarely equals breeds designed for that purpose.		 	      

	      The Siamese cat is one of the oldest breeds of cat, thought to have originated from the Siamese temple cats in today's Thailand (then known as Siam). The Siamese cat has similar features to the Birman cat, another ancient oriental temple cat from Myanmar (Burma).  

The Siamese cat is one of the most popular breeds of exotic domestic cat in both Europe and North America today. The breeding of the Siamese cat flourished during the 1900s, when they were introduced to households from south east Asia.  

The Siamese cat lives to an average of 8 to 10 years in the wild but commonly live to 15 years old when looked after well as a pet. It is not uncommon for the Siamese cat to reach 20 years old, although the Siamese breed is known to be prone to certain illnesses and conditions.  

The Siamese cat is a very affectionate and loyal breed of domestic cat, with the Siamese cat usually preferring human company over anything else including other cats and animals. The Siamese breed is known to be very depend on their human families.  

Siamese cats are intelligent animals and can be taught very easily. They can even be taught tricks such as sit, beg, lay down and to walk on a leash. They are also extremely jealous pets ad would not be pleased with you if you brought home another animal. They would become quite destructive to get as much attention possible.

		 	      

	      Tarsier Classification and Evolution
The Tarsier is a small species of primate that is found inhabiting the well-vegetated forests on a number of islands in south-east Asia. Although fossil records show that Tarsiers would have once been found on mainland Asia, Europe, North America and in Africa, modern Tarsiers are today restricted to just a handful of islands in Malaysia, Indonesia and the southern Philippines. Despite constant debate amongst scientists over the naming and classification of Tarsier species, in 2011 there were 18 different sub-species of Tarsier described that are split into three groups generally depending on their geographic location, which are Western Tarsiers, Eastern Tarsiers and Philippine Tarsiers. Although science is slowly discovering more and more about Tarsiers in the wild, data can be hard to collect due to their shy and elusive nature and coupled with the constant confusion over the classification of separate species, makes conservation efforts difficult.  
Tarsier Anatomy and Appearance
The Tarsier is a unique and distinctive looking animal that has evolved a number of specific features to aid it's nocturnal and arboreal lifestyle. Although the exact appearance of the Tarsier may vary slightly between species, all are relatively similar with a small, stocky body and long tail that is either sparsely covered in fur or has a tuft at the end. Their immensely soft fur varies from grey, to brown or ochre in colour depending on the species, but all Tarsiers share the characteristic long hind legs which enable them to leap distances of up to 5 meters between branches. The long fingers and toes of the Tarsier are tipped with pads and have nails to help them grip onto branches and prey, with long, curved claws on their second and third digits which are used for grooming. The most distinctive features of the Tarsier though can be found on their heads which (thanks to specially adapted vertebrae) are able to turn 180 degrees in both directions so that this primate can see behind it without moving it's body. Their enormous eyes can be up to 16mm across and enable the Tarsier to hunt for prey and watch out for predators in the dark. Tarsiers also have large bat-like ears which are incredibly sensitive to detect even the slightest sounds close-by.  
Tarsier Distribution and Habitat
Although they were once found around the world, today Tarsiers are restricted to a number of islands in south-east Asia. Western Tarsiers are generally found in lowland primary forests or low mountain forests on the islands of Borneo, Sumatra, Bangka, Belitung, Kalimanta and small surrounding islands. Eastern Tarsiers can only be found on Sulawesi and the surrounding islands but seem to be more adaptable to habitats at different levels of forest, with the exception of the Pygmy Tarsier which is restricted to very high mountainous forest. Philippine Tarsiers tend to prefer lowland forests and are distributed across a number of islands in the southern Philippines including Bohol, Samar, Leyte and Mindanao. Despite there being limited information about the distribution of a number of sub-species in particular, the general population trend is thought to be declining primarily due to habitat loss and fragmentation of such small and unique island eco-systems.  
Tarsier Behaviour and Lifestyle
Until recently it was thought that all Tarsier species were solitary however, recent research has shown that social behaviour varies between the different species with Eastern Tarsiers being the most sociable and spending time in groups of two or three individuals where Western Tarsiers appear to be more solitary, only coming together to mate. Tarsiers spend most of their lives clinging to vertical tree branches where they rest during the day. They are however, incredibly unique amongst primates as Tarsiers do not climb or move about in search of food and instead cling onto a tree branch where they are able to turn their heads dramatically to survey their surroundings. They then use their incredibly powerful, long hind legs to help them to leap to another branch or to pounce on prey with their padded fingertips and claws providing them with essential grip when landing. Tarsiers are also relatively vocal animals and although the number and frequency of calls depends on the species, it is often the easiest way to identify one Tarsier sub-species from another, with different vocalisations being used for different situations.  
Tarsier Reproduction and Life Cycles
Besides one species of Eastern Tarsier (the Spectral Tarsier) which tends to have more specific breeding seasons between April and May, and then October and November, Tarsiers tend to breed all year round with females giving birth to a single baby after a gestation period that lasts for about six months. Baby Tarsiers are very well developed and are born with a full coat of fur along with open eyes, and are able to climb at just a day old. The female Tarsier suckles her young for around two months when the infant begins eating an adult diet (some individuals are known to be able to hunt independently of their mother before they are even a month old). Tarsier infants are carried around in their mother's mouth or cling onto her fur. Once they are able to hunt on their own, young Tarsiers leave their mother to establish a territory of their own and are usually able to reproduce themselves by the time they are between one and two years old. The life span of Tarsiers depends on the species with Philippine Tarsiers thought to get to around 20 years old, where the Western and Eastern Tarsiers can be 15 years and 12 years respectively.  
Tarsier Diet and Prey
The Tarsier is a unique animal as they are the only completely carnivorous primates in the world. Under the cover of night, Tarsiers sit clinging to vertical branches where they wait motionless and survey their surrounds 180 degrees each way watching closely with their huge eyes and picking up on even the tiniest noise with their incredibly sensitive hearing. Once food has been located, the Tarsier moves slightly closer to it before leaping onto it and catching it with it's front hands. The long fingers and toes of the Tarsier enable it to also trap flying prey mid-air and provide an almost cage-like device to prevent it from escaping before the Tarsier has killed it. Insects make up the bulk of a Tarsier's diet along with small vertebrates such as frogs, lizards and small birds. Some Tarsier species are even known to hunt poisonous snakes and are able to acutally catch small bats in the air. Tarsiers hold their prey in their front hands to eat it using their strong jaws and teeth, and are known to have wide mouths for their small size to enable them to consume larger prey.  
Tarsier Predators and Threats
Due to the small size of the Tarsier, they are preyed upon by numerous animal species in the surrounding forest including cats, birds of prey, large snakes and small carnivores depending on the region in which they live. Tarsiers are able to keenly sense the presence of a potential predator and often use their strong hind legs to leap to a safer branch. However, the remaining Tarsier populations are at a greater risk from people than anything else, primarily in the form of the degradation and fragmentation of their habitats. Forest clearance throughout much of their natural range for agriculture (such as palm oil and plantations), mining and land clearance for livestock grazing has led to drastic declines in their population numbers. They are also often captured for the exotic pet trade but many die within a matter of days due to the lack of live food available or suitable sleeping sites.  
Tarsier Interesting Facts and Features
The Tarsier has an unusually long anklebone which enables it to jump distances more than 40 times it's own body length. The bones are known as the Tarsals which is where the Tarsier gets it's name. The Tarsier is one of the most unique primates on the planet and they are also known to have the largest eyes of any mammal in relation to their body size (each eye is actually heavier than it's brain). This extends further to their young with females known to give birth to the largest babies in relation to their adult size. The Tarsier is known to be quite unique geographically due to it's distribution across Wallace's Line. Wallace's Line runs south between Borneo and Sulawesi and separates the evolutionary centres of the animals found in Eurasia and Australia. Generally, animal species tend to be found on only one side of Wallace's Line but the Tarsier is found on both. It is thought that Tarsiers have inhabited this area of the world for at least 40 million years.  
Tarsier Relationship with Humans
The Tarsier is an incredibly elusive animal that is known to be particularly shy around Humans. With increasing Human activity in areas throughout much of their natural range, Tarsiers are being pushed into smaller and more isolated pockets of their once extensive and rich habitats. They are also not known to be particularly adaptable to areas of degraded forest often due to a lack of abundance of food and trees where they can not only sleep but also sit and lookout for prey or potential predators. A possible factor for the drastically declining populations of the Siau Island Tarsier is that it has been known for local people to hunt them for food, which along with their very restricted range on their island has led to them being classed as of the 25 most endangered primates in the world.  
Tarsier Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, many of the different Tarsier species are either listed as being Endangered or Vulnerable by the IUCN with a number (including the Siau Island Tarsier) being listed as being Critically Endangered in the their natural habitats. Some species are listed as Data Deficient by the IUCN due to a lack of information about their status in the wild. Although conservation work particularly of the Philippine Tarsier is striving to protect these animals and their remaining pockets of primary forest, they remain threatened by loss of habitat throughout much of their natural range. Captive breeding programmes are quite unsuccessful as only around 50% of Tarsiers captured are said to survive in their new homes generally due to a lack of live food and there is also a high infant mortality rate along with a slow reproduction rate of individuals kept in zoos. 
		 	      

	      The royal penguin is a medium to large sized species of penguin that is found inhabiting the freezing waters that surround the Antarctic continent. The royal penguin is best known for the yellow feathers than grow from it's forehead to the back of it's head and are not to be confused with the macaroni penguin which they are closely related to.  

Like other penguin species, the royal penguin spends the majority of it's life hunting out at sea and are usually found in the nutrient rich waters that surround Antarctica. However, royal penguins are known to only breed on Macquarie Island, a rocky south-western Pacific island that lies roughly half way between New Zealand and Antarctica.  

Until recently, the royal penguin and the macaroni penguin where thought to be the same species but there are a number of distinct differences between the two. Royal penguins have white chins and faces, where the face of the macaroni penguin is black. Royal penguins also breed exclusively on Macquarie Island, a place inhabited by no other penguin species.  

All penguins are fantastic swimmers and the royal penguin is no exception. Royal penguins use their powerful flippers and streamlined bodies, aided by their webbed feet to soar through the water and are able to reach speeds of nearly 20mph. Royal penguins also dive to depths of up to 150m in order to catch food, with dives usually lasting for a few minutes.  

The royal penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the royal penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish. Royal penguins can be at sea for days at a time whilst hunting.  

The royal penguin has no natural land-based predators due to the fact that royal penguins inhabit pretty harsh environments. Large leopard seals hunt the royal penguin in the water along with large sharks and killer whales. Royal penguin population have also been seriously affected by human hunting for the oil found in their feathers.  

Royal penguins nest on beaches or on bare areas on slopes covered with vegetation along the island's coast. Royal penguins are colonial birds, nesting in scrapes on the ground up to a mile inland (these sites are known as rookeries). The female royal penguin lays two eggs which are incubated for 35 days. The chicks leave the nest after a couple of months returning when they are 5 to 6 years old to begin breeding themselves.  

Today, the royal penguin has been listed as a vulnerable species as populations were seriously affected by over hunting at the beginning of the 20th century. This species is now protected so can no longer be poached for it's oil.

		 	      

	      The red wolf is a medium sized species of wolf, found in the coastal marshlands of southern parts of eastern North America. By the 1970s the pure red wolf was thought to be extinct in the wild, but a population has since been reintroduced in North Carolina that is said to now be up to 100 red wolf individuals.  

The red wolf was roamed across the south-eastern United States from Texas to Florida to New York. The red wolf's historical habitat included areas of forest, swampland and coastal prairies where it would of been one of the top predators. Today however, the world's red wolf population is confined to a protected area in North Carolina.  

The red wolf is generally smaller in size than the grey wolf, found in more northern parts of North America. Red wolves are named for their cinnamon coloured fur, which is brownish-red with dark patches on their backs. Red wolves also have broad noses and large looking ears for the size of their head.  

In a similar way to other canines, and indeed other wolf species, the red wolf is a very sociable animal, living in pack with a number of other red wolf individuals. Red wolf packs usually contain a dominant male and female and their offspring and contain between 2 and 10 members. The red wolf is also a highly territorial animal, with the red wolf pack guarding it's range from intrusion by other red wolf packs in the area.  

Although red wolves are known to hunt together as a group in order to catch a larger animal such as a deer, red wolves primarily eat smaller ground dwelling animals such as rabbits and rodents. Red wolves also eat birds, raccoons and other small animals. When trying to hunt a larger animal, the red wolf pack works together to confuse and corner their prey.  

In their historical range, red wolves were considered to be one of the most dominant predators within their environment, only coming under threat from larger canines such as grey wolves or the occasional coyote. Human hunters wiped out the red wolf population in large parts of their natural range, and the population was finally thought to become extinct primarily due to habitat loss.  

Red wolves are usually able to reproduce by the time they are 2 years old and begin mating in the warmer spring months of February and March. The female red wolf gives birth to a litter of up to 10 cubs after a gestation period that lasts for around 60 days. Cubs are born blind and are nursed by the rest of the pack until they are able to hunt for themselves and either remain with their parents or leave to start a pack of their own.  

Today, the red wolf is no longer extinct in the wild since their reintroduction to North Carolina in 1987, and the population their is now thought to be just over 100 red wolf individuals. Nevertheless, the red wolf is still considered to be a critically endangered animal and is regarded as the 10th most endangered animal species in the world.
		 	      

	      The sabre-toothed tiger is one of the most well-known prehistoric animals along with giants such as the woolly mammoth. Sabre-toothed tigers roamed the mid-western US and parts of both North and South America and were named for the enormous canines which skeletons show, protruded quite far out of their mouths.It became extinct in the  Quanternary period(the end of the dinosaur period) and during the ice age.  

Despite it's name, the sabre-toothed tiger was not actually related to the modern tigers that are found throughout the jungles of Asia. It is thought that the sabre-toothed tiger would have roamed across the grassland plains and open woodlands throughout both North and South America where individuals would of varied slightly depending on the area which they inhabited.  

The sabre-toothed tiger is one of the best known ice-age animals but little is really known about them as they are thought to have become extinct around 10,000BC which is a long time ago. The sabre-toothed tiger was named for the canines that could grow to more than 7 inches in length and were capable of fatally wounding their prey with one bite.  

Sadly, the colour of the sabre-tooth tiger is unknown but it is thought that is would of been of a similar colouration to the modern day lion found in Africa (and which it is not closely related to). The sabre-toothed tiger also had a powerful, muscular body which meant that it could quickly catch and pounce on it's prey before using it's knife-like teeth to cause to the fatal blow.  

In the same way as modern day felines, the sabre-toothed tiger was a carnivorous animal and would of been the most dominant predator within its environment. Large herbivorous animals such as deer and bison would of been the most common prey of the sabre-toothed tiger along with occasional giant such as a small woolly mammoth should their ranges cross, although their exact diet is unknown.  

The sabre-toothed cat would of been the most ferocious and therefore the apex predator within it's environment so had no natural predators on the American plains. Humans are thought to be the most likely cause for the demise of this enormous cat and more than 2,000 sabre-toothed tiger skeletons have been found emerged in the tar pits close to Los Angeles.   

As with modern felines, the sabre-toothed tiger would of bred in the warmer months of early spring, when after a gestation period that could last as long as 8 months, the female sabre-toothed tiger would give birth to an average of 3 cubs per litter. Nothing is known about sabre-toothed tiger cubs but they could be born blind like the cubs of today's felines.  

The sabre-toothed tiger is thought to have become extinct more than 12,000 years ago when human settlers first arrived in the Americas, hunting this species to extinction. Although climate change could also be the primary cause for their demise, little however is really known.

		 	      

	      Poison dart frogs are a group of frogs that are native to the tropical jungles of Central and South America. Poison dart frogs excrete toxins through their skins, and the brightly coloured bodies of poison dart frogs warn potential predators not to eat them.  

Poison dart frogs vary in size, colour and the levels of toxin that they produce depending on the species of poison dart frog and the area in which it lives. There are more than 175 different species of poison dart frog known to be inhabiting the jungles across Central and South America.  

Poison dart frogs are often known as dart frogs or poison arrow frogs due to the fact that the tribes-people living close to the poison dart frogs, would use their poison in order to tip the ends of their arrows and blow-darts.  

Poison dart frogs live on the ground or in the foliage just above it. Poison dart frogs are found in moist and humid forests that are free from high levels of pollution. Today, many species of poison dart frogs are considered to be critically endangered in the wild, mainly due to pollution and habitat loss.  

Poison dart frogs are carnivorous animals that survive on a diet purely made up of meat. Poison dart frogs shoot out their long, sticky tongues to catch flies, ants, insects, spiders and termites.  

Due to the high toxin levels produced by the poison dart frog, it has very few predators in the wild. Many animals will become extremely sick from just licking a poison dart frog, so they won't approach them. There is only one species of snake that is known to be immune to the poison of the poison dart frog.  

Many species of poison dart frog, make devoted parents as they carry their newborn hatchings from ground-level where they were laid to the safety of the canopy above. The eggs stick to mucus on the back of the mother poison dart frog, while she carries it a water-pool in a flower high in the trees. The female poison dart frog does this with all of her babies, and lays an unfertilised egg in the water for her young to eat.		 	      

	      Rock Hyrax Classification and Evolution
The Rock Hyrax is a large species of Hyrax, most commonly found in Eastern Africa. They are also known as the Rock Dassie or the Rock Rabbit, due to their rodent-like appearance but despite this, they are thought to be most closely related to much larger animals including the Elephant and the Manatee. Although obviously much smaller than their distant ancestors, it is the teeth and bone structure of these animals that relates them to one another. The Rock Hyrax though, is such a unique mammal that it is classified in an order of it's own, along with it's subspecies known as the Yellow-Spotted Hyrax, and the two Tree Hyrax species, which although are very similar in appearance, spend most of their time in the trees rather than on the ground.  
Rock Hyrax Anatomy and Appearance
The Rock Hyrax looks very much like a large Guinea Pig, but with rounder ears and the lack of a tail. They have thick, soft fur which is usually brown or grey in colour, but can be slightly yellow. A small hairless gland on their back is covered with longer hair than the rest of the Rock Hyrax's body, which is black but yellow or white on the Yellow-Spotted Hyrax (hence it's name). Rock Hyraxes have short legs with four toes on their front feet, and three on each of the back. The pads on the bottom of their feet, have a rubbery texture to them, allowing them to clamber about amongst the rocks more easily.  The Rock Hyrax has a more rounded head than other Hyrax species, which have more pointed, rodent-like noses.  
Rock Hyrax Distribution and Habitat
The Rock Hyrax is most widely distributed across the east of Africa but they also found throughout the south in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The Rock Hyrax is usually found in rocky outcrops where there is a good variety of vegetation including both shrubs and trees. They are very adaptable animals having been found living at altitudes ranging from sea level to 14,000 feet above it. Their habitats range from dry savanna to dense rainforest, but these areas must contain natural crevices between the rocks and boulders where the Rock Hyrax is able to shelter as they do not dig burrows of their own.  
Rock Hyrax Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Rock Hyrax is a very sociable animal, living together in colonies of up to 50 individuals. Rock Hyrax colonies are headed by a territorial male and consist of females and their young, with the male keeping watch for predators and protecting the group's patch from other males looking to move in on their shelter. Rock Hyraxes make a variety of noises including whistles and shrieks to communicate both within the group, and with other colonies in the area, with the male sounding the specific alarm call if a predator is spotted nearby. They spend the majority of their lives sunbathing on the rocks to warm up, before going off on short foraging trips, rarely far from the entrance to their home.  
Rock Hyrax Reproduction and Life Cycles
The male Rock Hyrax has the privilege of breeding with the females in his colony, which after a gestation period that can last for up to eight months, generally give birth to two or three young. The Rock Hyrax babies develop remarkably quickly, being able to run and jump just hours after birth and even start to nibble on vegetation after just a couple of days. They do however, still suckle from their mother, feeding on her milk until they are a few months old. The young Rock Hyraxes often gather together in small nursery groups, possibly as a form of protection whilst their mothers are out foraging for food. The Rock Hyrax reaches an average age of seven years old in the wild but some have been known to live for up to 12 years in captivity.  
Rock Hyrax Diet and Prey
The Rock Hyrax is an omnivorous animal, feeding on nearly everything it can find close to the colony's base. Rock Hyraxes feed on herbs, grasses, fruit and leaves, along with Bird's eggs, Insects and small Lizards that are sleepily sunbathing on the nearby rocks. The Rock Hyrax is a very cautious feeder, stopping after every mouthful to quickly survey it's surroundings and to keep an ear-out for the male's alarm call. When feeding as a family group, the Rock Hyrax has been observed facing outwards so that a watchful eye may be kept on lookout whilst they are eating. They tend to eat quickly, with their foraging trips only lasting for short periods of time and they generally occur very close to their family base.  
Rock Hyrax Predators and Threats
The small size of the Rock Hyrax makes it popular prey for numerous predators that inhabit similar environments. Large felines such as Leopards, Servals and Caracals are the primary predators of the Rock Hyrax along with Civets, large Birds and Snakes like Pythons. On having spotted the approaching danger, the male Rock Hyrax sounds the alarm call to tell the other members of his group that a predator is close. The Rock Hyrax then runs to hide in the safety of the gaps between the rocks, but will try to intimidate smaller predators by biting and snapping at them. Habitat loss mainly caused by deforestation, is one of the biggest threats to the Rock Hyrax, along with the hunting of them by Humans.  
Rock Hyrax Interesting Facts and Features
The Rock Hyrax lives in large colonies and although is not related to them, does exhibit some similar behaviours to the world's larger rodents, as they are known to use latrines which are the sole areas that they use to go to the toilet, in order to keep the rest of their territory clean. The Rock Hyrax can go far long periods of time without drinking as they are thought to obtain most of the moisture that they need from their food. Fossil remains show that the Rock Hyrax could have once been much bigger in size, which may explain why they have such a long gestation period for an animal of their size.  
Rock Hyrax Relationship with Humans
Although it poses no threat to people living in the same area, the Rock Hyrax has been hunted in the past, mainly for it's thick and soft fur but also for it's meat. One of the biggest threats to the Rock Hyrax today though is the loss of their natural habitats throughout much of their historical range, with growing Human settlements and the clearing of land, generally for agriculture. However, the areas that the Rock Hyraxes use as toilets are actually common places to find Humans, who are said to collect the deposits left by these animals, to use in traditional medicines.   
Rock Hyrax Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Rock Hyrax has been listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the wild in the immediate future. The Rock Hyrax is still fairly widespread with high populations numbers in certain areas. However, Rock Hyrax populations are under threat throughout much of eastern and southern Africa, mainly due to habitat loss.

		 	      

	      The Galapagos tortoise (giant Galapagos tortoise) was first documented by Charles Darwin last century when he went on his trip to the Galapagos islands.  

The Galapagos Tortoise is the biggest species of tortoise in the modern world with some Galapagos tortoises reaching more than 4ft long! The Galapagos tortoise is also one the longest living species of tortoise with a number of Galapagos tortoises getting older than 150!  

The Galapagos tortoise, like most other species of tortoise, is a herbivore spending its time grazing on grass and low trees. Today only 10 out of the 12 Galapagos tortoise species still exist on the Pacific islands due to the introduction of goats a few hundred years ago.  

The domestic goat, stripped the islands of their good foliage meaning that the Galapagos tortoise found it hard to find food. Today the Galapagos tortoise is most well known for their long necks, which make them look slightly like a dinosaur!  

The Galapagos tortoise is a very quiet, peaceful and lazy animal with the Galapagos tortoise waking up early in the morning to bask in the sun until the enormous body of the Galapagos tortoise has warmed up. The Galapagos tortoise then spends the rest of its day foraging for food before retiring back to bed in the early hours of the evening where the Galapagos tortoise spends the night in shrub land or submerged in water.  

The Galapagos tortoise is a very slow moving animal with the Galapagos tortoise having a top speed of less than 1 mile an hour! During the mating season however, the male Galapagos tortoises have been known to move at a surprising speed with marked individual Galapagos tortoises having been known to travel 13 km in just two days, a phenomenal feet for the sheer size of the Galapagos tortoise.  

Like other species of tortoise, the Galapagos tortoise is able to pull its head and legs into its shell to protect itself when the Galapagos tortoise feels under threat from potential predators. The scaly skin on the exposed legs and head of the Galapagos tortoise also acts a layer of armor to protect the Galapagos tortoise from incurring any damage when the Galapagos tortoise is moving around.  		 	      

	      The Sri Lankan elephant is a sub-species of Asian elephant which includes the Indian elephant, the Sumatran elephant, the Sri-Lanka elephant and the Borneo elephant. The Sri Lankan elephant is the largest of all the Asian elephant sub-species and is thought to be most closely related to the Indian elephant.  

As its name suggests, the Sri Lankan elephant is found on the Island of Sri Lanka and is thought to have arrived there from southern India. Despite once roaming the Island, the Sri Lankan elephant is now restricted to just a few designated National parks as the Sri Lankan elephants natural habitat gets turned into crop fields.  

The Sri Lankan elephant has smaller ears than the African elephant and the Sri Lankan elephant also has a more curved spine than the African elephant. Unlike the African elephants, the female Sri Lankan elephants very rarely have tusks, and if the female Sri Lankan elephant does have tusks, they are generally barely visible and can only be seen when the female Sri Lankan elephant opens her mouth.  

The Sri Lankan elephant follows strict migration routes that are determined by the monsoon season. The eldest elephant of the Sri Lankan elephant herd is responsible for remembering the migration route of its Sri Lankan elephant herd. This Sri Lankan elephant migration generally takes place between the wet and dry seasons and problems arose when farms where built along the migratory routes of the Sri Lankan elephant herds, as the Sri Lankan elephants caused a great deal of destruction to the newly founded farmland.  

Sri Lankan elephants are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat plants and plant matter in order to gain all of the nutrients that they need to survive. Sri Lankan elephants eat a wide variety of vegetation including grasses, leaves, shoots, barks, fruits, nuts and seeds. Sri Lankan elephants often use their long trunk to assist them in gathering food.  

Due to their large size, Sri Lankan elephants have very few predators within their natural environment. Besides human hunters, tigers are the primary predator of the Sri Lankan elephant, although they tend to hunt the smaller Sri Lankan elephant calves rather than the much larger and stronger adults.  

Female Sri Lankan elephants are generally able to breed by the time they are 10 years old, and give birth to a single Sri Lankan elephant calf after a 22 month gestation period. When the Sri Lankan elephant calf is first born, it weighs about 100 kg, and is cared for not only by it's mother by also by other female Sri Lankan elephants in the herd (known as aunties). The infant Sri Lankan elephant remains with its mother until it is around 5 years old and gains its independence, with males often leaving the herd and female calves staying.  

Today, the Sri Lankan elephant is considered to be an animal that is in immediate danger of becoming extinct due to the fact that Sri Lankan elephant populations have been declining at a critical rate. Sri Lankan elephants are thought to be suffering primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation and hunting for their ivory tusks by human poachers. 
		 	      

	      The gecko is a small to medium species of lizard that is found in the more temperate and tropical regions of the world. Geckos are more commonly found around the Equator and in the Southern Hemisphere although a few species of gecko are found north of the Equator in warmer regions.  

There are thought to be over 2,000 different species of gecko found around the world and it is widely believed that there are more species of gecko that ate yet to be discovered. Geckos are found in a wide variety of colours and have various different markings on their bodies depending on the species of gecko.  

Geckos are found in a wide variety of habitats in the warmer parts of the world including rocky deserts, mountains, jungles, rainforests, grasslands and even in urban areas where it is common to find geckos in houses.  

Geckos can range in size from just a few centimetre to more than 50 cm in length. The largest species of gecko is the Delcourt's gecko (which is now believed to be extinct), native to New Zealand and it grows to nearly 60 cm in length. The Jaragua Sphaero found in the Dominican Republic in South America, is the smallest species of gecko in the world and averages less than 2cm in length.  

Geckos are well known for their amazing ability to walk up vertical surfaces even those as smooth as glass. The feet of the gecko are covered in tiny hairs that stick to surfaces like sucker pads. This adaptation means that the gecko is a very agile animal.  

Geckos are carnivorous reptiles so the diet of the gecko is based on meat from other animals. Geckos primarily eat insects and worms, but some of the larger species of gecko hunt small birds, reptiles and even small mammals such as mice. Some species of gecko are also known to eat a small amount of plant matter such as moss.  

Due to their small size, geckos have a number of natural predators around the world, with the snake being the main predator of the gecko. Other animals that prey on the gecko include large spiders, birds and some mammal species.  

After mating, the female gecko lays 2 sticky eggs, that have a soft shell and are white in colour. The gecko eggs quickly harden so that the developing gecko inside is more protected. The eggs of the gecko can take between 1 and 3 months to hatch but the incubation period is largely dependent on the species of gecko and the area in which it inhabit. The female gecko is not known to nurse or look after the baby geckos after they hatch.  

Today, many species of gecko are considered to be threatened with extinction due to habitat loss and pollution. Geckos are also popular pets around the world and many are caught in the wild to be sold into the exotic pet trade.		 	      

	      The frilled lizard is a large species of lizard natively found in the jungles of Australia and its surrounding islands. The frilled lizard is known by a number of names including the frill-necked lizard and the frilled dragon.  

The frilled lizard is an arboreal animal meaning that it spends the majority of its life in the trees. Frilled lizards can be found in humid climates such as tropical jungles and forests, across Australia and Papua New Guinea.  

The frilled lizard is named after the large fold of skin that usually lies folded up against the frilled lizard's head and neck. When the frilled lizard feels threatened, the fold of skin fans out around the frilled lizard's head in order to make the frilled lizard appear larger and more intimidating than it is.  

The frilled lizard is fairly large species of lizard that can grow to nearly a meter in length. The long tail and sharp claws of the frilled lizard help the frilled lizard when it is climbing around in the trees.  

Like many other species of lizard, the frilled lizard is an omnivorous animal and the frilled lizard will therefore eat almost anything it can find. Despite this though, the frilled lizard will eat meat whenever possible as it hunts a variety of insects, spiders, rodents and small reptiles.  

Due to its relatively large size, the frilled lizard has only a handful of predators within its natural environment. Large snakes are the most common predators of the frilled lizard along with owls, dingos, foxes and birds of prey that tend to hunt the smaller and young frilled lizard individuals.  

Frilled lizards mate at the beginning of the wet season, and male frilled lizards are often slighter larger than the female frilled lizards. The female frilled lizard lays up t0 25 eggs in a burrow in the ground, before burying them. The frilled lizard babies tend to hatch within a few months. 		 	      

	      There are eight different species of fur seal found in the worlds oceans. Only one of these fur seal species is found in the northern hemisphere with the remaining seven species of fur seal found in the southern hemisphere.  

Fur seals are much more closely related to sea lions than true seals, and like sea lions the fur seal has external ears (many species of true seal are in fact earless). The fur seal also has relatively long and muscular foreflippers, and fur seals are also able to walk on all fours when the fur seals reach land.   

The fur seals most distinctive characteristic is the fur seals thick underfur which helps to keep the fur seal warm in freezing cold waters. The fur seals fur however has made the fur seal a long-time object of commercial hunting by humans.  

Fur seals tend to return to specific beaches or rocky alcoves to breed which the fur seals do in the summer months. The fur seal pups are sent into the water as soon as the mother fur seal is finished weaning them in order for the fur seal pups to learn how to hunt.  

The fur seal spends most of its time swimming in the open oceans hunting for food. Fur seals feed on fish and plankton but are also prone to hunting squid and eels.  

The fur seal is often targeted prey for large aquatic animals such as sharks, killer whales, sea lions and occasionally the larger adult leopard seals. 		 	      

	      The swan is a large aquatic bird closely related to geese and ducks. The swan is known for it's fierce temperament and the swans incredibly strong wings which are said to be able to cause dangerous (sometimes fatal) injuries to any animal the swan feels threatened by.  

The swan is found on both sides of the Equator across the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The northern swan is generally white in colour with an orange beak and the southern swan tends to be a mixture of white and black in colour with red, orange or black beaks.  

The Australian black swan has been noted to only swim with one leg, the other being tucked above it's tail. This helps the swan to change direction more smoothly when the swan is swimming on the surface of the water, should the swan spot food or even an oncoming predator.  

Swans are omnivorous birds but have a very vegetarian diet. Swans eat underwater vegetation such as seaweed and aquatic plants when they are on the water and a mixture of plants, seeds and berries when they are on land. Swans also eat insects both water and land based and the occasional small fish.  

Due to their large size, swans have few natural predators in the wild. The swan's main predator is the human who hunts the swan for it's meat and it's feathers. Other predators of the swan include wolves, raccoons and foxes they prey both on the swan itself but also on it's eggs.  

Although swans do not mate for life, couples establish strong bonds between one another and can often mate for a few years. Swans build their nests on land out of twigs and leaves, and the female swan lays between 3 and 9 eggs. The baby swans (known as cygnets) hatch out of their eggs after an incubation of just over a month. The cygnets are often on the water with their mother swan within a couple of days and stay close to her for both protection and warmth. The mother swan will guard her baby swans furiously from predators or any animal that she believes is a threat.  

Swans have many adaptations in order to successfully survive life on the water such as their streamline body shape, long neck and webbed feet. The wings of the swan are also very strong meaning that the swan is one of the few heavy birds that is able to fly, even if it is only a short distance.  

There are around 7 different species of swan found around the world. The size, colour and behaviour a swan individual is largely dependent on it's species and the area in which it lives.  

Today swans are a threatened species of animal mainly due to hunting and habitat loss. Pollution (mainly water pollution) is also a major reason as why the swan populations are declining. Humans kept swans for many years for their meat, but today have more respect for the conservation of the swan and keep more sustainable animal food sources.		 	      

	       The Rottweiler is a steady dog with a self-assured nature, but early socialization and exposure to as many new people, animals, and situations as possible is very important in developing these qualities. The Rottweiler also has a natural tendency to assert dominance if not properly trained.   

The Rottweilers large size and strength make this an important point to consider, an untrained, poorly trained, or abused Rottweiler can learn to be extremely aggressive and destructive and, if allowed to run at large, can pose a significant physical threat to humans or other animals.  

 They can be strong-willed and should be trained in a firm and consistent manner. The owner must be perceived by the dog as the leader. If the owner fails to achieve this status the Rottweiler will readily take on the role. Aggression in Rottweilers is associated with poor breeding, poor handling, lack of socialization, natural guarding tendencies, and especially abuse.		 	      

	      Sun Bear Classification and Evolution
The Sun Bear is a small species of bear that is found inhabiting the dense, tropical forests of south-east Asia. The Sun Bear is the smallest species of bear in the world and it is also one of the most unique, being the only member of it's family that has not only adapted to living in the jungle but also leads an exclusively tree-dwelling life. Also known as the Malaysian Sun Bear and the Honey Bear, the Sun Bear has a number of distinctive features most notably the orange U-shaped marking on it's chest from which it gets it's name. Sun Bears are both rare and elusive animals meaning that very little is actually known about their behaviours and habits in the wild (or indeed exactly how rare they are). Populations however, are known to be drastically decreasing as Sun Bears are threatened by both hunting and habitat loss throughout much of their natural range.  
Sun Bear Anatomy and Appearance
The Sun Bear is not only the smallest bear species in the world but it also has the shortest fur. The sleek, glossy coat of the Sun Bear ranges from black to dark brown or grey in colour with their distinctive chest marking varying from white to yellow or orange, and can take a number of shapes including the standard crescent, a circle or an irregular spot. The Sun Bear has a light-coloured face with a short muzzle, which along with their short fur and ears, is thought to be an adaptation to spending so much time in the trees. They also have long, curved claws on their front paws which help the animal to climb trees and break open hollow logs in search of termites, which it is also able to do with it's large canines and strong jaw. One of the most remarkable features of the Sun Bear is it's long tongue that can be up to 25cm long and is used to extract grubs and honey from nests and crevices.  
Sun Bear Distribution and Habitat
The Sun Bear would have once been found throughout a number of countries in south-east Asia but due to growing Human development, they are now only found in a handful of increasingly isolated habitats. Sun Bears can be found on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra, in forests on the mainland (Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam) and there are also a few remote populations of Sun Bears in eastern India and southern China. The Sun Bear inhabits primary, lowland rainforest where there are not only a wide variety of foods to eat, but also plenty of cover to remain safe from predators. However, throughout much of their natural range (but particularly in Indonesia and Malaysia) the Sun Bear has lost vast regions of it's native habitats to deforestation, primarily to clear land for agriculture (such as palm oil plantations) and to cut down the rare and valuable tropical trees for the timber industry.  
Sun Bear Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Sun Bear spends the majority of it's life high in the trees and even sleeps in a nest in the canopy which is built out by folding leafy branches over. They are therefore incredibly adept at climbing which they can do with remarkable speed using their long, curved claws. However, Sun Bears are also known to climb trees by actually hugging the trunk with their front limbs and by gripping with their strong teeth they are able to haul themselves up. Oddly enough, Sun Bears are primarily diurnal animals that spend the daytime foraging for food and resting high in their tree-top nests at night but, in areas that are being increasingly affected by growing levels of Human activity Sun Bears are known to adopt a more nocturnal way of life to avoid confrontation. Like the other bear species, Sun Bears are also solitary animals that are only really seen in each others company when a male and female are looking to mate.   
Sun Bear Reproduction and Life Cycles
In the same way as a number of other animal species that are found in the tropics, the Sun Bear is known to both mate and give birth all year round. After a gestation period that is known to vary dramatically (between 3 and 8 months) depending on the individual and the amount of food available, the female Sun Bear gives birth to up to three cubs (but usually only one cub is born) in a nest that she makes in a large cavity such as a hollow tree. The young Sun Bear cubs are nursed and fiercely guarded by their mother and are taught the skills of surviving in the tropics until they become independent of her when they are nearly two years old and leave to establish their own territories. Females are usually able to reproduce themselves when they are three years old and males a year later. Sun Bears are thought to live for an average of 25 years in the wild but have been known to commonly be more than 30 years old in captivity.  
Sun Bear Diet and Prey
Despite technically being a classed as a carnivore, the majority of the Sun Bears diet is comprised of fruits and other plant matter that it finds in the surrounding forest. Like other bear species, their molar teeth have lost their "flesh-shearing" capabilities and are instead flatter to help with the grinding down of vegetation. Sun Bears eat a wide variety of fruits, nuts, berries and shoots along with supplementing their diet with insects, grubs, honey, eggs and small animals such as rodents when plant matter is scarce. By using their strong teeth and sharp claws Sun Bears are able to break open hollow logs before using their long tongue to extract the termites inside. However, when it is not possible to break the nest in a tree trunk, Sun Bears are known to place their front paws into the hole one at a time, allowing the termites to crawl over their paws before the Sun Bear then licks them off.   
Sun Bear Predators and Threats
Due to the relatively large size and tree-dwelling nature of the Sun Bear, adults have relatively few predators in their native environment. Large carnivorous animals like Tigers are the main predators of the Sun Bear but these animals have evolved another unique adaptation to help them to escape in these situations. The Sun Bear has loose skin particularly around it's neck which means that is if is caught by a predator, it is able to still spin it's head round to try and bite it's attacker. Sun Bear cubs however, are much more vulnerable and are preyed upon by a variety of jungle predators including Snakes and large Birds of Prey. The biggest threat though to south-east Asia's remaining Sun Bear populations is the drastic declines in much of their natural habitats due to deforestation. In areas where agricultural plantations encroach on their territories, Sun Bears are also known to raid oil palms particularly to eat the young shoots. They are therefore also persecuted by farmers who fear for the stability of their crops.   
Sun Bear Interesting Facts and Features
The Sun Bear is known by a number of different names but it's small size, short snout and ears, and short, glossy fur has led it to being commonly known as the "Dog Bear" in local communities. Although the Sun Bear is generally solitary on rare occasions a few individuals are known to congregate around ripening fruit trees and will tolerate one another while they feed. Even though Sun Bears are similar in varying parts of their natural range, there is actually a smaller recognised sub-species of Sun Bear that is found on the island of Borneo but very little is known about it. Unlike a number of the other eight bear species around the world, the Sun Bear does not hibernate. Due to the fact that Sun Bears are found in the tropics where there are not such sweeping seasonal changes, they simply have no need to sleep through the winter months (breeding is also known to occur all year round for the same reason).   
Sun Bear Relationship with Humans
Since modern people arrived in south-east Asia thousands of years ago, Sun Bears have been hunted mainly for the use of certain of their body parts, particularly their gall-bladders, in local Asian medicine markets (which has also been the main reason for the drastic declines in nearly all other bear species too). Due to their small size and generally docile nature, Sun Bears have also been captured to be sold into the exotic pet trade around the world. However, the biggest problem for the Sun Bear today is the fact that it has lost vast areas of it's once extensive natural habitat to deforestation for logging and land clearance for agriculture (most of which is illegal). As the Sun Bear spends the majority of it's life in the trees, they rely heavily on the rich, dense rainforests that they have become accustomed too, but much of it today has now disappeared with growing Human activity.  
Sun Bear Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Sun Bear is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Vulnerable in it's natural environment and is therefore at risk from becoming extinct in the wild in the future. The elusive nature of the Sun Bear makes it difficult for anyone to really know exactly how threatened they are but populations are thought to have fallen by up to 30% in the past few decades. Sun Bear numbers are still declining and although their exact population numbers are unknown, there could be less than 1,000 individuals left in the wild today. Although illegal deforestation is harder to control, Sun Bears are protected by anti-poaching laws to help prevent so many being continually hunted in the future. 
		 	      

	      A scorpion fish is a group of predatory, marine fish that are found amongst coral reefs and in shallow waters in the more temperate oceans. The scorpion fish is most closely related to the lionfish and is most commonly found in the Indian and South Pacific oceans.  

There are more than 200 recognised species of scorpion fish, hiding amongst the ocean reefs and in artificial aquariums around the world. Scorpion fish are kept in tanks by numerous people because of their interesting appearance and behaviour.  

The body of the scorpion fish is often cover in feathery fins that help the scorpion fish to camouflage itself into the surrounding coral. The colours and markings of the scorpion fish are also used to help the scorpion fish to hide.  

Scorpion fish are nocturnal predators, and spend the daylight hours resting in a hidden crevice in the coral. Scorpion fish are also able to ambush their prey from this position and often catch small fish by surprise.  

Scorpion fish are omnivorous fish and hunt small fish, crustaceans and snails on the coral reefs. Scorpion fish are able to stun their prey with their venom before eating it. Scorpion fish also use their venomous sting to fend off unwanted predators.  

The scorpion fish is a very dominant predator in it's environment, and therefore the scorpion fish has very few natural predators. The human catching the scorpion fish to keep in tanks is the biggest threat to the scorpion fish along with habitat loss from the destruction of coral reefs. Large fish and sea lions are also known to hunt scorpion fish.  

The female scorpion fish releases between 2,000 and 15,000 eggs into the water which are fertilised by the male scorpion fish. The scorpion fish pair then quickly hide so that their eggs can float into the ocean before being spotted by predators that eat the eggs. The scorpion fish eggs hatch in just 2 days and the tiny scorpion fish fry remain near the surface of the water until they are bigger. When the scorpion fish fry reach nearly an inch in length, they swim down into the ocean to join the reef community.		 	      

	      The sea dragon is a small, delicate fish found in the tropical coastal waters of south and west Australia. Sea dragons look similar to and are in fact closely related to sea horses.  

There are two different species of sea dragon which are the leafy sea dragon and the weedy sea dragon. Although both sea dragon species have a similar body shape and size, they are very different in appearance.  

The leafy sea dragon is the master of camouflage, and being able to hide itself so easily amongst the plants means that the leafy sea dragon is rarely eaten, despite having numerous potential predators in the surrounding water.  

The weedy sea dragon does not look so elaborate, only having a few feather fins along its back. The weedy sea dragon has adapted to life on the sea bed as these feathery (weed-like) fins help the sea dragon to camouflage into the debris on the sea floor.  

Despite their small size, sea dragons are carnivorous animals and therefore have a purely meat-based diet. The sea dragon uses its pipe-like snout to suck its prey into its oddly tooth-less mouth. Sea dragons hunt crustaceans, plankton, shrimp and even small fish, using their camouflage to their advantage.  

Sea dragons have numerous natural predators in the south and western coastal waters of Australia but are rarely even spotted to the elaborate camouflage of the sea dragon. Those few sea dragons that are unlucky enough to be found, are usually spotted by large fish.  

As with sea horses, it is the male sea dragon who care for the eggs once they have been laid by the female. The female lays around 250 eggs onto the long tail onto the long tail of the male sea horse. The eggs of the sea dragon can take up to 9 weeks to hatch and remain in the care of the male sea dragon at all times.  

The baby sea dragons are completely independent once they have hatched and feed on tiny nutritious particles in the water. It can take up to a year for the sea dragon babies to be nearly the size of the adult sea dragons.
		 	      

	      The seahorse is a small species of vertebrate that is found in the tropical shallows and temperate waters around the world. The sea horse is also commonly found around coral reefs where there is plenty of food and places for the seahorse to hide.   

The seahorse is most closely related to a pipe fish although, the seahorse does not have scales like most fish and instead the seahorse has a bone structure that is made up of little plates and covered with a thin layer of skin.  

There are 32 recognised species of seahorse found in all water types worldwide, with the exception of the polar regions. Seahorses are generally small animals averaging around 10cm in height although this is dependent on the species. Seahorses can also be found in many different colours but the exact colour of the seahorse is down to the particular species of seahorse and the area in which it lives.  

Seahorses spend their time bobbing in the sea grasses and coral reefs and due to their colourings, seahorses are able to camouflage themselves pretty effectively into the aquatic plants and larger coral so as to hide from their predators.  
The seahorse has a number of distinctive features which help the seahorse to survive in it's marine environment. The seahorse has a long snout for sucking in food and a long tail which the seahorse uses both for moving through the water and also for clinging onto coral and aquatic plants, which the seahorse does by curling this long tail around things in order to anchor itself down.  

The seahorse is an omnivorous animal and the seahorse therefore eats a mixture of plant and animal matter which the seahorse does by sucking the food into it's body through it's elongated snout. The seahorse primarily feeds on brine shrimp. plankton, tiny species of fish and algae.  

Due to the small size and vulnerability of the seahorse, the seahorse has numerous predators within it's natural environment. Crustaceans such as crabs, fish and rays are all common predators of the seahorse along with humans who harvest the seahorse for use in medicine. The seahorse is also vulnerable to bad weather as in storms, seahorses are often thrown from the place that they were clinging onto and onto the shore.   

The sea horse is best known for the remarkable fact that the male seahorse is the one that actually carries the eggs before they hatch. In most other animal species the female of the species if the one to protect the offspring until birth. Instead the female seahorse lays her eggs (anywhere between 8 and 600 eggs are laid depending on the species of seahorse), into the male's brooding pouch where they remain until they hatch within around 3 weeks.  

The seahorse is a highly endangered animal mainly due to habitat loss and over-hunting. The seahorse is a popular ingredient in medicine (mainly in the far east), and hundreds to thousands of seahorse are harvested every year for this purpose. 		 	      

	      Rattlesnake  are poisonous snakes that belong to the pit viper group and are recognized by the distinctive rattle on the end of their tail.  Most species of rattlers have hemotoxic venom that attacks tissues and destroys them.  The Mojave rattlesnake also has a neurotoxin in its venom making it the most dangerous of all the species of rattlesnakes.

Rattlesnakes vary considerably in color depending on their habitat.  In the western states the author has observed pinks, greens, rust colors, and almost black. They tend to blend well with their background.  Some species are more reactive to threats than others, but most would rather run away than have an encounter with a human.  They use their heat sensing pits on their faces to  "see" heat images.  They track wounded prey by following its heat signature.

They use their poison to subdue their prey, small mammals like rabbits and mice.  The venom starts digesting the prey from the inside before the snake even swallows it.  Venom is also used defensively when the snake feels threatened.  They are able to use as much or as little venom as they wish.  Up to 1/3 of bites to humans are dry bites with no venom injected.  Treatment involves putting a constriction band around the limb above the bite and getting quickly to a hospital for antivenom treatment.

They are prey themselves to kingsnakes, roadrunners, pigs, eagles and hawks.
		 	      

	      The puss moth is a generally medium sized species of moth that is found across Europe and in parts of North Africa. The puss moth is not to be confused with the cat-like North American puss moth that is well-known for the incredibly hairy appearance of it's caterpillar. The puss moth caterpillar of Europe is not so hairy but is known to have some very distinctive features themselves.  

The adult puss moth can grow quite large, with some individuals known to have a wingspan that grew to nearly 10cm. Puss moths are one of the easiest moth species to identify as the dark black markings stand out again the bright white colour of their wings. As with most other species of moth, the puss moth is a generally nocturnal animal that rests during the day and comes out at night to feed.  

However, it is the caterpillar of the puss moth that has made them so interesting to humans. The caterpillar of the puss moth is generally green in colour with a dark looking spike protruding from one end and a colourful "face" on the other. When threatened the puss moth caterpillar is known to spray formic acid at it's attacker to minimise the chance of it being eaten (it is the most dangerous caterpillar species in Britain).  

Puss moths are herbivorous animals that primarily feed on the leaves from willow and poplar trees that grow naturally in the surrounding forest. Puss moths generally remain in the same area where there are a number of decent host trees for these moths to both feast on and rest in.  

As with other moth and butterfly species, the puss moth has numerous predators to try and avoid within its natural environment. Bats, rats and birds are among the most common predators of the puss moth along with other animals such as frogs and rodents. Despite its best attempts, the aggressive caterpillar of the puss moth is also eaten by many of these animals.  

Butterflies and moths are well known for the incredible metamorphic process undergone from the larvae to adult stages. Puss moths start life as caterpillars which eventually fortify themselves in a cocoon where they transform into the adult moth. The puss moth cocoon is known to be one of the hardest of all moth species.  

Today, the puss moth is threatened in much of it's native range primarily due to changes within its environment including habitat loss and the introduction of non-native predators into their natural environment.
		 	      

	      Rabbits are small mammals found naturally in Europe, South Africa, Sumatra and Japan. Rabbits are also often found in the desert regions of the Middle East where the rabbits inhabit the greener parts of the deserts where there is enough food and water for the rabbits to survive.  

Rabbits are herbivores that feed on mainly on grass, but rabbits also eat nuts and berries and often fruit and vegetables. Rabbits dig burrows into the ground where the rabbit hides and stores food, and also gives birth to and raises the baby rabbits.  

Today, the rabbit is a popular pet particularly with young children due to the rabbits calm and quiet nature. Rabbits are natures lawnmowers and can eat grass all day long. It is vital that pet rabbits eat enough grass as the grass is not only good for them, but also helps to keep the teeth of the rabbit healthy. Rabbit teeth grow constantly and if the rabbit is not able to gnaw on things to keep them down, then their teeth can grow extremely long which causes pain and often death to the rabbit.  

The average rabbit lives to about 8 years old when kept as a pet, but many wild rabbits do not live as long due to the fact that the rabbit is prey to many predators including cats, dogs and humans. Rabbits are also prone to myxomatosis, a disease that causes the rabbit to rapidly develop tumors which quickly results in death. Pet rabbits should be vaccinated against the disease every 6 months to a year which prevents the disease from becoming fatal should the rabbit catch it.  

Rabbits are seen as pests by farmers and gardeners alike due to their destructive nature when they are around lush vegetation. In Australia, the myxomatosis virus was deliberately introduced as a form of pest control for the numerous rabbits that were inhabiting and eating their way through the plant life.   

Today their are more than 50 different species of rabbit and the number continues to increase as the selective breeding of pet rabbits becomes more popular. The smallest species of domestic rabbit is the mini lop which weighs around 5 lbs, and the largest species of domestic rabbits is the flemish giant rabbit which weighs between 5 kg and 9kg and is the largest species of rabbit in the world.  

Rabbits are often used as a symbol of fertility or rebirth, and have long been associated with spring and Easter as the Easter Bunny. Rabbits are well known for their quick and successful breeding with the average gestation period of the rabbit being just over a month, with the female rabbit then giving birth to an average of 6 babies.		 	      

	      The Sumatran rhinoceros is the smallest of the five rhinoceros species with a body length of less than 250cm. Unlike the other Asian rhinoceros species, the Sumatran rhinoceros has two horns like the white and black rhinos found on the African continent.  

The Sumatran rhinoceros primarily inhabits dense lowland rainforests, tall grass and reed beds that are plentiful with rivers, large floodplains, or wet areas with many mud wallows, swamps and cloud forests. The range of Sumatran rhinoceros once stretched from India, through south-east Asia and down to Sumatra but today, the Sumatran rhinoceros is only found on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo, with a number also on the Malaysian mainland.  

The Sumatran rhinoceros is the smallest of the rhinoceros species and along with having two horns, meant the Sumatran rhinoceros has been an easy target for poachers. The Sumatran rhinoceros uses it's horns for defence, intimidation, digging up roots and breaking branches during feeding. The horns of the Sumatran rhinoceros are made from a substance called keratin and are therefore very strong. The horns of the Sumatran rhinoceros are used in ancient medicine and many Sumatran rhinos have been illegally hunted for them.   

The Sumatran rhinoceros has relatively poor eyesight, relying more on hearing and smell to detect what is going on around them. The ears of the Sumatran rhinoceros possess a relatively wide rotational range to detect sounds and an excellent sense of smell to readily alert them to the presence of predators.  

The Sumatran rhinoceros is a herbivorous animal meaning that it sustains itself on a purely plant based diet. Sumatran rhinos browse the densely vegetated sub-tropical forest for leaves, flowers, buds, fruits, berries and roots which they dig up from the ground using their horns.  

Due to it's large size, the Sumatran rhinoceros's only real predator in the wild are large wild cats such as tigers that will prey on the Sumatran rhino calves and weak individuals. Humans are the biggest threat to the Sumatran rhinoceros as they have been hunted to the brink of extinction for their horns.  

The Sumatran rhinoceros is solitary animal and only comes together with other Sumatran rhinos to mate. The female Sumatran rhinoceros gives birth to a single calf after a gestation period that is over a year long. The Sumatran rhinoceros calf remains with it's mother until it is at least 2 years old and big enough to become independent.  

Today, the Sumatran rhinoceros has been poached for it's horns to the extent that it is on the brink of extinction. Hunting of the Sumatran rhinoceros along with habitat loss in their native regions have led to there being estimated that there are less than 300 Sumatran rhinoceros individuals left in the jungles of south-east Asia today.
		 	      

	      Saola Classification and Evolution
The Saola is a species of Antelope natively found in the forests on the border of north-central Vietnam and Laos. They are one of the most recently discovered large mammals in the world but are now also believed to be one of the rarest with estimated population numbers just in the tens of individuals. Although the Saola closely resembles the Arabian Desert Antelopes, they are thought to be more closely related to Wild Cattle. The Saola however is such a distinctive and unique animal, that after their discovery in 1992, they were given a taxonomic group of their own. They are incredibly rare and elusive mammals, and still today, very little is actually known about the Saola. The Saola is also known as the Asian Unicorn, which is not thought to be particularly related to it's long horns, but more the fact that it is just so rare.  
Saola Anatomy and Appearance
The Saola is one of the most distinctive Antelope species in the world, with it's most characteristic feature being the long and sharply-pointed horns that sit parallel on top of the animal's head. These smooth horns are found on both males and females of the species and can grow up to 50cm in length. The body of the Saola ranges in colour from chestnut brown, to red, to almost black, with a dark, narrow stripe running along the back which ends in a small and fluffy black tail. The legs of the Saola are also black in colour, but it is on their face that their most distinctive white markings are found. The Saola's fur is relatively thin and notably soft, and covers their thick skin which is thought to help to protect them from being too badly injured from the horns of other individuals.  
Saola Distribution and Habitat
The Saola is thought to be found in what forest still remains in the Annamite Mountains that sit on the border between north-central Vietnam and neighbouring Laos. Although they are thought to exist in certain areas, no-one really knows for sure due to the lack of a proper formal survey. They have however been noted in 15 small pockets of forest between the two countries, generally at a mid-altitude range (between 400 meters and 1,000 meters above sea level). The Saola is most commonly found in dense, evergreen forests that are moist and have a good source of running water. Locals claim that the Saola spends it's summer months further up the alpine slopes, venturing down during the winter when the water sources higher up have run dry and there is therefore also less to eat.  
Saola Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Saola is thought to be a diurnal animal meaning that they are most active during the day-light hours, possibly resting out of sight to protect themselves from predators under the cover of night. They are thought to lead a generally solitary lifestyle, although reports of small groups of Saola are not unknown. These most commonly contain either two or three individuals, but claims from villagers suggest that they can congregate in herds of up to seven members. Male Saola are thought to be highly territorial and to roam a much larger range than their female counterparts, all though, are believed to mark their territory using a sticky, smelly liquid which is secreted from their large maxillary glands. They are believed to be alpine migrants in certain areas, following the water supplies up and down the slopes.   
Saola Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Saola breeding season appears to coincide with the start of the rainy season which is around February to March in Vietnam and between April and June in neighbouring Laos. Males are thought to find a female that often co-inhabits a small part of the male's range. After mating, females are thought to give birth to a single calf (much in the same way as other Bovine species) after a gestation period that is thought to last for between 7 and 8 months. Females have four nipples on their underside where the young can suckle milk from but very little is still known about the reproduction or the general life cycle of the elusive Saola. They are thought to live for between 8 and 11 years in the wild.  
Saola Diet and Prey
Like all other Antelope species and indeed Cattle, the Saola is a herbivorous animal that survives on a diet that is solely comprised of plants and plant matter. Although very few records exist on the Saola in their natural environment, they are thought to primarily feed on the leaves of fig and other trees and bushes, that grow along the moist riverbanks. The Saola is also thought to feed on fruits, seeds and berries from these plants, along with munching on grasses and herbs that grow on the ground, rather than above it. They are known to be browsing animals that nibble from plant to plant throughout their habitat, and are nearly always found close to a source of fresh, running water such as a small slow-moving river or mountain stream.  
Saola Predators and Threats
Although very little is still known about the rare Saola living deep in the jungles, they are thought to be mainly preyed on by larger animals including Tigers and Crocodiles that they share their habitats with. The biggest threat to the Saola however, is the hunting of them for their horns which are a prized trophy amongst locals. Not only that but they are also commonly caught in traps that are set for other animals and have been severely affected by habitat loss through both deforestation and growing Human settlements in the fertile lowlands around the base of the mountains, where they would have once most commonly roamed.   
Saola Interesting Facts and Features
The Saola is one of the most recently discovered large mammals, as it was first known to science as recently as May 1992. During a joint survey that was conducted by the Ministry of Forestry of Vietnam and WWF, the unique horns of the Saola was spotted in the houses of local hunters, which led to an investigation into the animal and the areas in which it lived. Nearly all of the information that exists on the Saola, actually comes from 13 individuals that were held in captivity (6 in Vietnam and 7 in Laos) after their discovery and from reports by local villagers. Sadly however, all but two of these Saola individuals died whilst being studied and there are no Saola found in captivity anywhere in the world as they do not seem to survive at all well in conditions outside of the those that they have naturally adapted and evolved to.  
Saola Relationship with Humans
The Saola was once thought to actually primarily inhabit more lowland forests towards the base of the mountains. However, with growing Human settlements, they have been pushed higher and higher up the slopes and are now unable to enter much of their historical forests as they simply no longer exist. Having been hunted specifically as a species by Humans in the past, today hunters are still among the Saola's biggest threats. As a protected species, they cannot be hunted but often get caught in snares and traps that are set up in the forests where they exist, mainly to catch Wild Boar and Deer. Despite this though, extensive work is being done throughout much of their natural range to ensure that they more commonly exist in areas of protected forest that are not at as much risk from hunting and poaching.  
Saola Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Saola is listed by the IUCN as being an animal that is Critically Endangered in it's natural environment. Despite the fact that no formal survey has been conducted, the IUCN estimates that populations could have been as low as 250 when the Saola was first recorded in the summer of 1992, a number that is thought to have dropped significantly since then due to the increased growth of Human settlements. WWF claim that the rareness, distinctiveness and uniqueness of the Saola, make it one of the greatest priorities to conservation in the Indochina region today. A small 61 square mile reserve has just been set up in the Quang Nam province in central Vietnam, specifically to try and protect the dwindling populations of Saola today.
		 	      

	      Squirrel Monkey Classification and Evolution
The Squirrel Monkey is a small species of New World Monkey that is natively found in the forests and tropical jungles of Central and South America. Measuring as little as 25cm from the top of the head to the base of their tail, these tiny primates are more than double that size when including their long tail. Unlike a number of other small monkey species, the tail of the Squirrel Monkey is not prehensile which means that it cannot be used to grip onto branches. Instead, their long tail is used to help the Squirrel Monkey to balance when climbing about on the high branches. There are five species of Squirrel Monkey found in varying locations which are the Common Squirrel Monkey, the Black-Capped Squirrel Monkey, the Central American Squirrel Monkey, the Golden-Backed Squirrel Monkey and the Black-Headed Squirrel Monkey. All Squirrel Monkey species resemble each other in appearance besides slight variations in fur colour and the region in which they live.   
Squirrel Monkey Anatomy and Appearance
Although both male and female Squirrel Monkeys appear to be almost identical in size and appearance, males actually tend to be slightly larger and heavier than their female counterparts. Squirrel Monkeys have very distinctively coloured, short fur which is mostly olive or grey in colour with the exception of their bright yellow legs and white face. The Squirrel Monkey also has a tuft of longer and darker hair on it's forehead and a black or dark brown muzzle. The Squirrel Monkey spends a great deal of time high in the trees and is very well adapted to doing so with incredibly dexterous fingers that are not only great for gripping onto branches, but also come in very useful when opening fruits and holding onto prey. The long tail of the Squirrel Monkey is longer than it's body and is quite slim ending in a dark, bushy tip.   
Squirrel Monkey Distribution and Habitat
The five different species of Squirrel Monkey are found distributed throughout Central America and into South America as far as the upper Amazon Basin. Squirrel Monkeys tend to prefer regions of dense, tropical forest that is close to a stream or other flowing water source which is thought to be for safety. Most active during the day, Squirrel Monkeys are found at the middle level of the forest canopy and will rarely venture towards the top as they are in danger of being caught by birds, or down to the ground in fear of other predators. Squirrel Monkeys can however, be found in a variety of forest types and have even been known to inhabit areas that have been cleared for agriculture. They are under threat though from habitat loss that is primarily in the form of deforestation for agriculture and growing Human settlements.  
Squirrel Monkey Behaviour and Lifestyle
Squirrel Monkeys are incredibly sociable animals that move about noisily in the trees in large troops that are usually 40 or 50 animals strong, but can contain up to 500 individuals. Squirrel Monkey troops usually contain a number of sub-groups including adult males, pregnant females, females with their young, and groups of young Squirrel Monkeys. They communicate between one another using a range of different noises with these complex social troops sleeping together at night before breaking up into their sub-groups to feed during the day. Squirrel Monkeys are excellent at climbing and leap between branches to travel through the forest. Their long tail provides them with excellent balance and aided by their nimble hands and feet, allows Squirrel Monkeys to cover vast areas of the jungle. They are also known to follow other troops at a distance to take advantage of the food left in their path.   
Squirrel Monkey Reproduction and Life Cycles
At the start of the breeding season, the shoulders of male Squirrel Monkeys broaden and they begin to fight aggressively for their right to mate, with the winner earning mating rights with the most females. Shortly after giving birth, the female Squirrel Monkey will chase away the male who plays no part in raising the single infant and leaves to join his all-male group. Squirrel Monkey births tend to occur during a short period of time which corresponds with the heaviest annual rainfall between June and August. After a gestation period that lasts for around five months, the female Squirrel Monkey begins to carry her young on her back from the first day. By the time the infant is two months old, it begins to explore more without it's mother and is almost completely independent by the time it is 10 months old. Young females may stay with or close to their mother for some time but male Squirrel Monkeys will leave her to join a young all-male group.  
Squirrel Monkey Diet and Prey
The Squirrel Monkey is an omnivorous animal that eats both small animals, plants and plant matter in order to survive, feeding during the day in their smaller sub-groups. Squirrel Monkeys have a widely varied diet that is primarily comprised of fruits and insects. They are also known to eat flowers, buds, eggs, nuts, lizards and other small vertebrates that are found amongst the surrounding leaves and branches. The hands and fingers of the Squirrel Monkey are perfectly designed for holding onto food whilst either peeling it or eating it, which it does using it's small but sharp teeth. However, in areas that have been more effected by deforestation, Squirrel Monkeys have been known to raid agricultural plantations in search of food.   
Squirrel Monkey Predators and Threats
The Squirrel Monkey uses a number of vocal calls to communicate with the rest of the troop including having special warning sounds which indicate the presence of a dangerous predator. The Squirrel Monkey is one of the smallest species of New World Monkeys and is therefore preyed upon by a variety of forest animals. Birds of Prey are the biggest threat to the Squirrel Monkey along with Snakes that hunt them in the trees. Due to the fact that habitat loss has forced Squirrel Monkeys in some areas to eat crops, they are threatened by methods used to try and keep them away. The fact that Squirrel Monkeys inhabit the jungle in enormous troops means that they have also been severely effected by decrease of forest as there is not enough food to sustain the whole troop.  
Squirrel Monkey Interesting Facts and Features
The Squirrel Monkey is thought to be one of the most intelligent species of primate and is known to have the largest brain to body mass ratio of all the monkey species in the world. Squirrel Monkeys have incredibly good eyesight and colour vision which means that they are able to spot fruits amongst the dense vegetation with ease. Whilst feeding in really dense foliage, Squirrel Monkeys are known to make a "chuck-chuck" sound to indicate their whereabouts to other members of their troop. Squirrel Monkeys are also known to spread urine on their hands and feet which means they are able to leave a scent trail whilst moving about in the trees.   
Squirrel Monkey Relationship with Humans
Due to the small size and highly intelligent nature of the Squirrel Monkey, they have been captured and kept as pets in both their native regions and around the world. Although the majority of Squirrel Monkey pets are today bred from captive animals, the capture of them in the past for the exotic pet trade has had an effect on wild populations, particularly in certain areas. The Squirrel Monkey is today however, more threatened by increasing levels of Human activity in their native regions particularly in the form of deforestation for logging and land clearance for agriculture.   
Squirrel Monkey Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Squirrel Monkey is an animal species that is at a lower risk in it's natural environment than a number of other New World Monkey species. However, two out of the five Squirrel Monkey species are listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN and two are listed as being of Least Concern. Population numbers of all five species though are threatened by habitat loss, with their large troops being pushed into smaller and smaller areas of their natural habitat.
		 	      

	      The tapir is a large mammal that despite it's pig-like appearance, is believed to be most closely related to horses and rhinos. The tapir is found in moist, dense forests in the more temperate regions of the Southern Hemisphere.  

There are four known species of tapir today, all of which are classified as endangered. The different species of tapir are the Baird's Tapir which is native to Central America and the northern parts of South America. The Baird's Tapir can be identified by the fact that this species of tapir has a cream coloured marking on it's face. The Malayan Tapir (also known as the Asian Tapir) is the largest of the tapir species and has a distinctive white band across it's body. The Malayan Tapir once roamed the tropical forests across South East Asia but the Malayan Tapir today has a much smaller range primarily due to habitat loss. The Mountain Tapir is the smallest of the four different tapir species and (as the name suggests) it inhabits more mountainous regions rather than lowland forests. The Mountain Tapir is found in the high forests in the Andes mountains across Colombia, Ecuador and parts north of Peru. The Brazilian Tapir (also known as the South American Tapir) is known to be a fantastic swimmer and the Brazilian Tapir is generally found close to water in the Amazon Rainforest.  

The tapir is a herbivore and spends it's time browsing for food to eat. The tapir eats leaves, twigs, branches, buds, shoots, berries, fruits and aquatic plants. Due to it's large size, the tapir has few natural predators in it's environment but it is known to be prey upon by wild cats such as tigers, jaguars and cougars along with large reptiles like crocodiles and even the odd snake. The human is believed to be the most common predator of the tapir as they have been hunted for food and even domesticated in some areas.  

Tapirs have a long, flexible nose (similar to the trunk of an elephant but no way near as big). The tapir uses it's prehensile snout to grab leaves and branches from bushes and low trees. Despite, their stocky build, tapirs are known to be fantastic swimmers and tapirs therefore spend a great deal of their time close to water which the tapirs use to cool down. Tapirs are even known to dive into the shallows in order to feed on the lush aquatic plants.   

Tapirs tend to mate in the cooler months of April and May. After a gestation period of more than a year, the female tapir gives births to just one tapir baby. When the baby tapir is first born, it weighs around 10 kg and the baby tapirs also have a stripy coat particularly in comparison to the adult tapirs. Female tapirs are thought to breed every other year, and the baby tapirs tend to leave their mother when they are between 2 and 3 years old.  

Today, all four species of tapir are considered to be endangered. This is mainly due to do deforestation and habitat loss, and over hunting of tapirs by humans. Humans have hunted tapirs for both their meat and their leathery skin.   

Tapirs are solitary animals with the exception of the mating season and the mother tapir nursing the baby tapir. Due to the fact that tapirs are very shy animals there has been little interaction between humans and wild tapirs (besides hunters). However, tapirs are known to defend themselves using their powerful jaws and although rare, tapir attacks on humans are known to occur. The most damage the tapir will generally do though is give you a nasty bite!		 	      

	      Serval Classification and Evolution
The Serval is a medium-sized species of cat that is found throughout sub-Saharan Africa, mainly in covered areas that are close to water. Thought to be most closely related to the African Golden Cat and the Caracal, the Serval is one of the most distinctive felines on the African continent with it's spotted fur and long limbs giving it the appearance of a small Cheetah. Servals have excellent smell, sight and hearing which helps them to detect prey both in the long grass and even underground, with their large and rounded ears being able to rotate independently to pinpoint small animals close-by. Although the Serval is not considered to be at any great risk in the wild, they are being subjected to increasing levels of the loss of their wetland habitats which has led to population declines in certain areas along with having been extensively hunted for their fur.   
Serval Anatomy and Appearance
The Serval has yellowish or orange coloured fur that is covered with both dark spots and stripes (the size and placement of which vary wildly between individuals), that helps to camouflage the Serval into the long grass. Markings start on the top of the head, running between the ears and down the neck and forming four distinct stripes which break into spots on reaching the shoulders. The Serval's relatively short tail is banded with black rings and ends in a black tip. Servals have quite long necks in comparison to their body size and when coupled with their long legs, enables their head to be up to 75cm off the ground which helps the animal to both see and hear clearly whilst hiding in long grass. Like all other felines (with the exception of the Cheetah) the Serval is able to pull-back it's claws into protective pouches of skin in their feet which means that they are able to keep their claws sharp to hunt with as they are not being blunted when moving around.  
Serval Distribution and Habitat
Historically, the Serval would have once been found throughout Africa but is today mainly confined to areas south of the Sahara. Although there are a few small populations in the north, they are thought to number around 250 mature individuals and are considered to be locally critically endangered. The Serval has a relatively wide range throughout central and southern parts of Africa where it is most commonly found in reed beds and rushes that fringe wetlands and in grasslands that have a good source of water. Although wetlands are preferred, Servals are fairly adaptable animals and can be found in a range of other habitats within their home range too including forest, bamboo thickets, marshes and along streams providing that there is a good supply of food and plenty of water.    
Serval Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Serval is a solitary animal that leads a crepuscular lifestyle, meaning that it is most active in the early morning and evening. Servals are highly territorial animals that roam throughout a home-range of between 12 and 20 square kilometres that is marked with scent such as urine or scratch marks on trees and on the ground. Like numerous other feline species around the world, the range of a male Serval overlaps those of as many females as possible with which he can mate with (females however do not share parts of their territories with other females). Servals are incredibly adaptable animals that are not just good at climbing trees to escape danger but unlike many cats, will happily also wade into the water to catch their prey which they do by powerfully pouncing on their victim and catching it with their front paws.  
Serval Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although there is no set breeding season for Servals, more mating tends to occur in the spring when a female will seek out and court the male for a few days. After mating, female Servals establish a safe den in dense vegetation where she gives birth to between one and three kittens, that are born after a gestation period that lasts for 73 days. Young Servals are born blind and weigh just 250g but within the first two weeks, their eyes open and they double in size. Female Servals suckle their young until they are weaned at 5 months when they begin to accompany her when hunting for food but don't tend to leave her for at least a year. Once independent, the kittens must find a territory to call their own which can take young males up to two years. Servals are thought to live for an average of 10-12 years in the wild with oldest recorded individual having reached the age of 23.  
Serval Diet and Prey
The Serval is a carnivorous animal that hunts and eats small animals in order to survive. Servals primarily hunt rats and other small rodents along with fish and frogs in the water, large insects and small birds, which they are able to catch both on the ground and by leaping into the air. Servals detect their prey either by sniffing the air or by waiting and listening silently using their large ears. Once found, they lower their bodies towards the ground and slowly move towards it which is known as stalking. Once the Serval is close enough to it's victim it pounces on it, catching the animal with it's front paws. The long, back legs of the Serval are incredibly powerful and allow them to leap up to four meters horizontally and more than a meter up into the air. Although they don't normally attack livestock, in areas that are close to habitation they have been known to take poultry and rarely can also attack dogs.  
Serval Predators and Threats
Due to the relatively large size and stealthy nature of the Serval, they have no common natural predators within their native environments with Leopards and Hyenas posing the biggest threat to them (not just from attack but also over competing for both food and territories). The biggest threat to Servals throughout Africa is people that are known to kill them for their fur which is highly sought after particularly among tribes in West Africa. They are also at risk from being shot by farmers who fear for their livestock and are threatened by habitat loss in a number of areas throughout their natural range.   
Serval Interesting Facts and Features
Although Servals eat a variety of different prey, nearly 94% of their diet is comprised of small rodents such as rats, mice and shrews which means that they play a vital role in their local eco-systems keeping rodent numbers down. The large dish-like ears of the Serval allow them to sense the vibrations of rodents that are even underground and once detected, the Serval will dig it's prey out using it's sharp claws. The placement and size of the spots and stripes varies from one individual to the next however, those Servals that are found in grassland habitats tend to have larger black spots than those found in more forested areas to ensure they are well-camouflaged into their surroundings. Female Servals are known to change their lifestyles in order to accommodate for the fact that they have young and have to find food more often than normal. However, before they are old enough to join her out hunting, the kittens wait restlessly for her in the den and will often try and follow their mother who must distract them before leaving to hunt.  
Serval Relationship with Humans
Servals were once found throughout the African continent but are today extinct from the very south and in many parts of the north, primarily because they have been hunted for their pelts. They have also been captured and sold into the exotic pet trade and have even been cross-bred with domestic cats to produce smaller but similar looking felines. Servals tend to survive more successfully in areas away from human settlements but when this is not possible, they are known to change their habits such as hunting at night rather than at dawn and dusk to minimise disturbance. Although they are not commonly known to actually attack livestock, they are often persecuted by farmers that fear for their domestic animals which has led to population declines particularly in certain areas.   
Serval Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Serval is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the near future due to the fact that they are widespread and populations in many places are stable. However, they are now extinct from certain areas and have been declared locally Critically Endangered in the north where only a handful of small populations still exist. The reintroduction of captive bred Servals has occurred in a number of regions to try to stabilise dwindling populations but the ongoing loss of their unique wetland habitats is causing concern to conservationists over the future of the Serval in Africa. Although the hunting of them is now prohibited in many African countries, pelts are still traded and in high numbers in some areas.

		 	      

	      Swamps and wetlands are large areas of water that are broken up by small islands of land and large amounts of plants. Swamps and wetlands, marshes, bogs and fens are found all over the world, generally in more temperate regions where there is fast vegetation growth. Swamps can be found in freshwater, brackish and salt-water environments and have a number of wildlife species that have specifically adapted to living in them.  

There are two main types of shallow watery areas, which are swamps and wetlands. Swamps tend to be found in forested areas where trees, such as mangrove trees, are able to survive in the salt-water conditions and need lots of space for their roots. Wetlands tend to be areas close to large rivers or estuaries that flood when there is a large amount of water and the river banks burst. Wetlands are home to numerous species of fish, birds and reptiles.  

Mangrove swamps are one of the richest habitats in the world as they are home to animals both above and below the surface of the water. The enormous roots of the mangrove trees act as shelter to small fish, reptiles and amphibians and also act as a method for animals to get in and out of the water. There are many species of fish that can be found in mangrove forests and nowhere else in the world.  

Many of the larger animals that inhabit swamps and wetlands have a fish-based diet. Large crabs dwell in the salt-water swamps, along with snapping turtles and even crocodiles and alligators. Lizards and amphibians live in and around the waters edge and one species of snake has even adapted to eating fish. In the wetlands, large aquatic birds such as the iris and the heron stand in the shallower waters spearing fish with their long beaks.  

Swamps and wetlands are one of the most preferable places for numerous insects to lay their eggs, and they are home to water-loving babies such as dragonfly nymph which spend the first part of their lives under the surface of the water. Frogs are often found inhabiting swamp and wetland areas, primarily due to the abundance of food in the form of flies and other insects.  

Due to deforestation and pollution in both the air and the water, swamps and wetlands are becoming more and more threatened. Many animals that inhabit swamp and wetland habitats are specifically adapted to living in these environments and are vulnerable to toxins in the water and the air.
		 	      

	      There are many different species of squirrel natively found in the Americas, Europe, Asia and Africa. Squirrels are small rodents generally between 10 cm and 20 cm tall, although some species of squirrel like marmots and prairie dogs around the size of a small beaver.  

The red squirrel native to the United Kingdom is rapidly becoming extinct due to the rise in eastern grey squirrel numbers. In the UK grey squirrels are classed as vermin so it is illegal to release any into the wild as the grey squirrel destroys the habitats of the smaller native red squirrel.  

There are around 50 species of flying squirrel found in tree tops worldwide. These flying squirrels cannot fly as such, but more jump and glide to their destination, with the flying squirrel able to use its shorter tail to help it balance.  

There are about six species of ground squirrel still found mainly in America with the exception of the African ground squirrel which resembles a small meerkat. Marmots and prairie dogs can grow to up to 60 cm in length and live for more than 20 years in captivity.  

Squirrels eat nuts, berries, shoots and occasionally insects. Most species of squirrel hibernates during the colder winter months, with the squirrels beginning to store food in their dens during the autumn in preparation for the winter.   		 	      

	      The quail is a small bird that inhabits woodland and forest areas around the world. There are thought to be more than 15 different species of quail, with each species of quail being found in different parts of the world and all have slightly different appearances depending on how they have adapted to their environment.  

Although the quail is very small sized bird, the quail belongs to the same bird family as pheasants. Quails range in size depending on the species from the Japanese quail which is around 10cm tall to the larger mountain quail that can grow up to 25 cm tall.  

Quails are generally solitary birds and spend most of their time either on their own or in a pair with just one other quail. During the mating season it is common to see large flocks of quails as family groups convoy together in groups of up to 100 quail individuals. Quails do not tend to migrate and therefore spend their lives within the same area.  

In some parts of the world, quails are kept as poultry birds both for the small amount of meat that they contain and for the quail's brightly coloured eggs. These tiny coloured eggs are seen as a delicacy in some parts of the world and can often be found on menus in posh restaurants.  

When quails reach 2 months old, they are then able to mate. Quails tend to breed in more open areas such as farmland and lay their eggs in nests. Quail clutch sizes can vary between one and 12 eggs depending on the species of quail and the baby quail chicks hatch out of their eggs in less than a month.  

Although quails are omnivorous animals, they tend to have a primarily vegetarian diet eating seeds, wheat, barley, flowers and fruits but they will also eat insects such as worms and grasshoppers. Around 95% of the quail's diet is thought to consist of plant matter.  

The quail has many natural predators, mainly due to it's small size. Snakes, raccoons, foxes, squirrels, coyotes, bobcats, skunks, dogs, cats, hawks, owls, rats and weasels are all known to hunt either the quail itself or it's vulnerable eggs. Humans are too predators of the quail but tend to eat those that have been reared in a commercial manner.		 	      

	      The glass lizard (also known as the glass snake and the jointed snake) are a group of reptiles that resemble snakes, but are actually lizards. Although most species of glass lizard have no legs, their head shape and the fact that they have movable eyelids and external ear openings identify them as lizards.  

Glass lizards are found all around the world although, the greatest number of species in the genus are native to Asia, from India to China and the Indonesian islands. At least one species, the Moroccan glass lizard, comes from North Africa, and several species live in the south-eastern United States including the barrier islands off the Atlantic coast of Florida. The glass lizard is also found in abundance in Eastern North Carolina as far as 40 miles from Atlantic Ocean.  

Despite being known as leg-less lizards, there are a few species of glass lizard that have very small stub-like legs near the rear vent (these animals are also known as glass snakes). The glass lizard is able to reach lengths of up to 4 feet (1.2 m), but approximately two-thirds of this is the tail.   

Their common name of glass lizard comes from the fact that they are easily broken: like many lizards, they have the ability to deter predation by dropping off part of the tail which can break into several pieces, like glass. The tail remains mobile, while the lizard becomes motionless, distracting the predator, and allowing eventual escape. This serious loss of body mass requires a considerable effort to replace, and the new tail is usually smaller in size than the original.  

Glass lizards are carnivorous predators that feed mainly on insects. Like numerous other lizard species, the glass lizard is a primarily nocturnal hunter as it spends the hot daytime recharging in the sun, giving the glass lizard the energy it needs to hunt under the cover of night. Glass lizards also prey upon small mammals such as rodents, frogs, birds and eggs.  

The glass lizard as a wide variety of predators throughout it's habitats around the world including mammals, snakes and birds of prey. The ability of the glass lizard to detach it's tail in a time of panic, gives the glass lizard more time to get away.  

Glass lizards tend to breed in early summer, when female glass lizards lay several eggs under a log or in dense forest foliage. The female glass lizard apparently attends the eggs until they hatch, a rare occurrence in lizards as most simply bury their eggs and leave. Some glass lizard species are also able to give birth to live young but most do lay eggs.  

Today, the glass lizard is not a species that is considered to be at risk from becoming extinct in the near future, although studies are being done into the current state of the glass lizard populations around the world to determine their current ecological status. 
		 	      

	       In Greenland this breed exists in much the same condition as it had when originally arriving there, and are kept as chiefly as a working dog valued for its strength and speed rather than a malleable temperament.  

 As a result of living in a pack structure very much similar to their wolf forebears, the Greenland dog takes a very firm and confident owner to make a good pet.		 	      

	      The Siamese fighting fish is a small and colourful carnivorous species of fish found in the Mekong River that runs through a number of countries in south-east Asia.  

The Siamese fighting fish is native to the Mekong delta in south-east Asia and although the Siamese fighting fish can today be found naturally in Myanmar, Laos and Cambodia, it is thought to have originated from Thailand.  

The Siamese fighting fish was given its name in Thai  ikan bettah  which means biting fish! The Siamese fighting fish is known for its feisty temperament displayed towards other males and smaller species of fish and can often display very aggressive behaviour towards any animals that the Siamese fighting fish sees as a threat towards it .  

The Siamese fighting fish is easily recognised due to the beautiful colours displayed on the body of the Siamese fighting fish. Siamese fighting fish also have long and elaborate coloured fins, which are longer on the male Siamese fighting fish than the fins of the female Siamese fighting fish. The fins of the Siamese fighting fish look particularly elaborate due to the fact that the body of the Siamese fighting fish is relatively small.  

The Siamese fighting fish is a carnivorous species of animals and therefore, the diet Siamese fighting fish is meat based. Siamese fighting fish mainly eat insects and brine shrimp and also the larger food particles that are part of the plankton in the water.  

Due to it's small size, bright colours and long, attractive fins, the Siamese fighting fish is preyed about by many other animals. The predators of the Siamese fighting fish include larger fish, cats, newts, salamanders, birds and humans who catch the Siamese fighting fish to keep in tanks at home.  

The Siamese fighting fish mate in a fashion that involves the male Siamese fighting fish and female Siamese fighting fish spiralling around each other. Between 10 and 45 eggs are released and fertilized at each embrace. Once the female Siamese fighting fish has released all of her eggs, she is chased away from the territory of the male Siamese fighting fish, as it is likely that she'll eat the eggs. The male Siamese fighting fish carefully keeps every egg in his bubble nest, making sure none fall to the bottom, and repairing the bubble nest as needed. The incubation period of the eggs of the Siamese fighting fish is a few days. The Siamese fighting fish only lives for up to 5 years, but the Siamese fighting fish normally will only get to the age of 2 or 3.  

The Siamese fighting fish is a fairly hassle free fish to keep in a small aquarium where there only a few fish. The Siamese fighting fish is also a popular aquarium fish due to it's brightly coloured body and elaborate fins. The Siamese fighting fish only has a short lifespan though which means that they won't get to as old as the fish in the garden pond!		 	      

	      The sea urchin in found across the ocean floors worldwide, but rarely in the colder, polar regions. Sea urchins are commonly found along the rocky ocean floor in both shallow and deeper water and sea urchins are also commonly found inhabiting coral reefs.  

There are nearly 200 different species of recognised sea urchin, that come in all shapes and sizes. Some sea urchins are covered in long thin spikes where others have a hard shell that is made up of chalky plates. The red sea urchin is the longest living creature on earth, with some living more than 200 years.  

Sea urchins are omnivorous animals and therefore eat both plant and animal matter. The sea urchin mainly feeds on algae on the coral and rocks, along with decomposing matter such as dead fish, mussels, sponges ans barnacles.  

Sea urchins are preyed about by many predators that inhabit their marine environment, but also those animals that don't. The main predators of the sea urchin are crabs, large fish, sea otters, eels, birds and humans. In some countries, certain species of the sea urchin are hunted and served as a delicacy.  

Sea urchins have a round shaped body and with long spines that come off it. The spines of the sea urchin are used for protection, to move about, and to trap food particles that are floating around in the water. Sea urchins have five paired rows of tiny tube feet which are found amongst the spines. The feet of the sea urchin have suckers which help the sea urchin to move about, capture food, and to hold onto the ocean floor.   

Sea urchins also have little claw-like structure among their spines which the sea urchin uses for protection. These structures (known as pedicellarines) are small stinging structures that are not only used for defence and obtaining food, but are also vital in keeping the body of the sea urchin clean.  

The mouth of the sea urchin (known as the Aristotle's lantern), is found in the middle on the underside of the sea urchin's body and has five tooth-like plates for feeding. The anus of the sea urchin is located on the top of the body. As with other echinoderms, sea urchins do not have a brain and instead rely on their water-vascular system which is like a circulatory system and comprises of water-filled channels that run through the body of the sea urchin.  

Sea urchins spawn during the spring, and the female sea urchin releases millions of tiny, jelly-coated eggs into the water that are then fertilised by the sperm of the male sea urchin. The tiny sea urchin eggs become part of the plankton and the sea urchin babies (larvae) do not hatch for several months. The sea urchin young will not become large enough to retreat from the plankton and down to the ocean floor until they are between 2 and 5 years old.  

Due to dredging on the ocean floor and pollution in the water, the sea urchin populations are declining and the sea urchin and today thought to be threatened with extinction.  
		 	      

	      There are two main types of spadefoot toad, those that live only in North America and those that live in Europe, Northern Africa and Western Asia. The spadefoot toad is an amphibian and anurans. Anurans are frogs and toads.  

Spadefoot toads are rarely seen because of their unusual habits. They are usually found in Western North American deserts like the Mojave, Chihuaha, and Sonoran. Normally this would be a problem for an amphibian, but spadefoot toads are able to deal with the hot and dry weather as spadefoot toads spend most of their time underground.  

The spadefoot toad is a burrowing species of toad and they use their large front feet to make tunnels in the sand. Spadefoot toads are able to spend weeks underground but will come to the surface at night time after heavy rain when the air is moist, so that they can feed.  

Spadefoot toads are omnivorous animals and have a primarily vegetarian diet when they are young. As the spadefoot toad gets older, they begin to eat large invertebrates such as snails, grasshoppers and caterpillars.  

The spadefoot toad tadpoles develop very quickly. They can also dig holes and bury themselves until the next desert rain, when they will spawn and turn into the larger, rounder adult toads.  

Spadefoot toads generally live between 3 and 12 years but are prey to a number of larger predators. Birds and birds of prey can pick out an unsuspecting spadefoot toad from the sky above and snakes often hunt them on the ground. Fish are the primary predators for the smaller and more vulnerable spadefoot toad tadpoles. 		 	      

	      The oyster is a sessile (immobile) mollusc that is commonly found clinging onto shipwrecks, debris and harbour walls around the world. Oysters are bivalve molluscs meaning that they are closely related to other animals such as scallops, clams and mussels.  

Oysters are found in salt water environments all around the world but are more commonly found in more temperate regions where the shallows are richer in nutrients. Oysters are thought to be among the oldest animals on the planet although their exact evolutionary path remains unclear.  

As with other molluscs, oysters filter water in and out of their protective shells so that their vulnerable bodies inside are never put in danger. The hard shell of the oyster is primarily made up from calcium.  

Despite there being numerous different species of oyster, oysters are generally split up into four distinct groups, which are true oysters (the ones eaten by humans), pearl oysters (produce pearls), thorny oysters (also known as spiny oysters) and saddle oysters (have very thin shells).  

Oysters are filter-feeders so collect their nutrients by taking in water and their gills filter and collect food that the stomach then digests, dispersing the remaining water out of it's shell. Oysters are thought to be able to process up to 10 litres of water an hour so can vary in quality depending on the quality of the water.  

Due to their small size and the fact that they don't move once they are adults, oysters are preyed upon by numerous different predators both in the sea and on the land. Humans, birds, marine mammals, sea turtles and various species of fish all prey upon the oyster.  

Oysters have varying methods of reproduction. as some oyster species are hermaphrodites and some have separate sexes. Female oysters release millions of eggs into the water, where fertilization occurs externally. The oyster larvae develop within a matter of hours, and spend their first few weeks swimming around until they finally settle and attach themselves to objects, where they remain for the rest of their lives.  

Today, although now commercially farmed, wild oysters are becoming rarer mainly due to increasing levels of pollution. Although many oysters have adapted to life in poor quality water, they are not as healthy as those oysters that are filtering water that is chemical-free.		 	      

	      A salamander is an amphibian that has four legs, a long and slender body and a long tail. Despite their lizard-like appearance, salamanders are most closely related to the smaller amphibious lizard, the newt.  

Salamanders are found all over the world generally in more temperate climates. All species of salamander are aquatic or semi-aquatic due to their amphibious nature and permeable skin. The moist skin of the salamander means that the salamander inhabits aquatic regions or wetlands.  

There are more than 700 different species of recognised salamander worldwide from the smaller species of newt to the Chinese Giant salamander which can grow to nearly 2 meters long. All species of salamander look very similar in appearance but as with lizards, different species of salamander can have less limbs than normal meaning that some species of salamander have a more eel-like appearance.  

In a similar way to newts and lizards, the salamander is remarkably able to regenerate and regrow lost limbs and sometimes other body parts too. This gives the salamander an advantage when being hunted by predators as the salamander is able to drop body parts and escape.  

Most species of salamander are brightly coloured, particularly the male salamanders during the breeding season, when their colours become brighter and more intense in order to try to attract a female. Those species of salamander that live underground are often either white or pink in colour due to the fact that their skin is never exposed to the sun.  

The skin of salamanders secretes mucus, which helps keep the animal moist when on dry land, and maintains their salt balance while in water, as well as providing a lubricant during swimming. Salamanders also secrete poison from glands in their skin, and some additionally have skin glands for secreting courtship pheromones.  

Salamander population numbers have been dramatically decreasing possibly due to levels of fungus that is increasingly present in the water. It is unknown as to whether or not this is the reason for the decreasing salamander numbers but pollution levels are also thought to have played a big part.		 	      

	      The grey mouse lemur is one of the world's smallest primates, and one of the smallest lemurs on the island of Madagascar. The grey mouse lemur was named after it's size and appearance that resembles that of a mouse (in a similar way to the other mouse lemur species). Although threatened, the grey mouse lemur is considered to be one of the most abundant primates on the island.  

Like all other lemur species, the grey mouse lemur is native to, and found only on, the island of Madagascar, off the eastern coast of Africa. Grey mouse lemurs inhabit native tropical woodlands and forests where they spend the majority of their lives nesting in the trees. Grey mouse lemurs are usually found perching on thin branches and occupy ranges of up to 5 acres in size.  

The grey mouse lemur is the largest species of mouse lemur found in the forests of Madagascar growing to lengths of nearly 30cm. However, the grey mouse lemur is still smaller than the pygmy marmoset which is the world's smallest species of monkey and is found inhabiting the tropical jungles of South America.  

In the same way to the island's other species of lemur, the grey mouse lemur is a generally nocturnal animal, spending it's days resting in the safety of the trees. Grey mouse lemurs emerge after dark when they are able to forage in the surrounding forest for food, and are not quite so easy for hungry predators to detect. The large eyes of the grey mouse lemur mean that it can see more easily under the cover of night.  

The grey mouse lemur is an omnivorous animal, eating almost anything that it can find. Grey mouse lemurs primarily hunt and feed on insects both in the trees and on the ground. Fruits, nuts, berries, shoots and the occasional passing rodent, make up the rest of the grey mouse lemur's diet. Grey mouse lemurs usually hunt alone but spend their days resting in the trees with a number of other grey mouse lemurs.  

Due to their small size, grey mouse lemurs can often be hard to spot in the dense forest but they are still successfully hunted by a number of Madagascan predators including birds of prey such as eagles and owls, various snakes and of course, the fossa, which is an animal that has evolved to hunt and eat lemurs in the forest.  

The night-dwelling nature of this tiny primate means that there is limited information on more complex behaviours of the grey mouse lemur including how it reproduces. Grey mouse lemurs breed during September and October, when after a gestation period of roughly 2 months, 2 or 3 young are born. The baby grey mouse lemurs are cared for by their mother until they are big enough to become independent.   

Today, although one of the most common primates on Madagascar, the grey mouse lemur is considered to be a threatened species mainly due to habitat loss caused by drastic deforestation across the island. A number of Madagascar's native trees however, have recently been listed by the IUCN hopefully meaning a decrease in the deforestation of natural woodlands there.
		 	      

	      The tang is a small to medium sized fish that is found in the warmer coastal waters of the tropics. Tangs are well know for their bright colours and are closely related to surgeon fish and unicorn fish.  

There are 80 known species of tang, that inhabit the tropical waters of the southern hemisphere, including the largest species of the tang group, the white margin unicorn fish that has been known to grow over a meter long.  

Tang are found around shallow coral reefs where there is an abundance of food and plenty of places to hide from approaching predators. The tang is named after the razor-sharp scalpel (also known as tang) at the base of their tails. When the tang feels threatened, it hides in a crevice in the coral or rocks and anchors itself in using this scalpel. The scalpel at the base of the tang's tail can also be used to defend itself if it is caught.  

Although the tang is an omnivorous animal, it has a predominantly vegetarian diet. Tang mainly feed on algae and other plants around the coral reefs as well as picking the larger food particles out of the plankton in the water. Later species of tang also feed on small invertebrates and fish. Due to the tang's love of algae, tang can often be seen with sea turtles as they swim along with them cleaning the algae off their shells.  

Due to it's small size, the tang has many predators in it's shallow ocean environment including larger fish, eels, sharks, crustaceans and large invertebrates such as jellyfish. Tang are also preyed upon by human who mainly catch them to keep in artificial aquariums.  

Tangs are known to breed all year round in the tropical regions, beginning with a male tang securing himself a temporary breeding territory that includes a pair or group of female tang. The female tang release an average of 40,000 eggs into the water which are then fertilised by the male tang. The baby tang are known as fry and hatch in less than a week. Tangs however are reported to breed as well when in captivity.  

The tang is one of the most popular species of marine fish to be kept in tanks and aquariums around the world. People are charmed by the peaceful and gentle nature of the tang, along with it's bright colours and the fact that tangs can live for a long time (average is between 12 and 15 years), especially compared to other species of marine fish of a similar size.  

Tang are not recommended to be kept in small aquariums as tang have the potential to get pretty big. The most common type of tang kept in salt-water aquariums are the yellow tang and the bright blue regal tang but despite the fact that the tang is popular fish to keep they need to be well looked after and have specific water conditions maintained.		 	      

	      The grouse is a heavily-built bird that is found in the cold, forested areas of the Northern Hemisphere. The grouse is most closely related to other game birds including chickens, peasants and turkeys and, although not commonly farmed commercially, the grouse is hunted by humans in its natural habitat.  

The grouse inhabits both hot and cold environments, and can be found in a variety of habitats like forests, moorland, shrub-land and close to rural farms.   

In order to survive the bitter Northern winters, the grouse has feathered legs and toes which not only help to keep the grouse warm, but they also give the grouse more grip and stability when it is walking around in the snow.  

Despite inhabiting areas that often fall within the Arctic Circle, thousands of grouse are hunted as game each year by humans. The grouse population numbers are not drastically effected however as they often lay a large number of eggs so the grouse population is able to increase at a fast rate.  

The grouse is an omnivorous animal meaning that it eats both plants and other animals. Despite this though, plant matter makes up the majority of the grouse's diet as the grouse eats grasses, fruits, nuts, berries, shoots, seeds and flowers, along with insects and even rodents.  

Due to its stocky build and the fact that the grouse is one of the few animals able to exist within the Arctic Circle, that grouse is preyed upon by a number of native predators. Wildcats including lynx, foxes, wolves and large birds of prey all prey upon the grouse, alongside human hunters.  

Female grouse nests in a dip in the ground, following an elaborate mating display by the male grouse. The female grouse can lay up to 12 eggs at a time which hatch after a month of incubation. 		 	      

	      The sperm whale is one of the world's water giants and is found in ocean waters worldwide. Although historically known as the common cachalot, the sperm whale gets it's name from the waxy-liquid substance found in it's head, that is used in candles, soap and cosmetics by humans.  

The sperm whale was once found in large groups, known as pods, around the world but extensive whaling of the sperm whale has led to it being classified as a vulnerable species today. The sperm whale is most commonly found in the deep ocean, where there is an abundance of food and along continental shelves.  

An adult sperm whale can grow to nearly 70ft long, making the sperm whale the largest toothed animal on the planet (although about a third of the length of the sperm whale is made up of it's head alone). Sperm whales have around 50 large teeth in total, which are cone-shaped and weigh about 1kg each.  

Sperm whales are not only one of the world's biggest animals but are also one of the deepest diving animals in the ocean (along with elephant seals and bottlenose dolphins), and commonly dive to depths of nearly 500 metres for up to half an hour at a time. It is believed however, that sperm whales are able to dive much deeper reaching depths of around 3 km for periods of 90 minutes or more.  

The sperm whale is one of the ocean's largest and most dominant predators, feeding primarily on medium sized squid. The sperm whale is also known to hunt larger squid species including the colossal and giant squids, and also octopus and large fish.  

The sheer size of the adult sperm whale means that it has no real natural predators in the ocean, besides being over-hunted by humans. The smaller sperm whale calves however have been known to be taken by killer whales and occasionally large sharks.  

After a gestation period that lasts anywhere from a year to a year and a half, the female sperm whale gives birth to a single sperm whale calf into the surrounding water. Calves are thought to suckle (feed on their mother's milk) for up a few years before they begin hunting for themselves. Female sperm whales are able to breed when they are around 10 years old and can live to be beyond the age of 70.  

Today, due to centuries of hunting, the sperm whale population is thought to be under threat in the wild. Although the sperm whale population is said to be stronger than that of other whale species, sperm whales are also now under threat from other factors including noise and chemical pollution in the water.
		 	      

	      The Galapagos penguin is the third smallest species of penguin in the world and is the most distinctive as it lives further north than any other penguin species. The Galapagos penguin is thought to be most closely to the African penguin and the Humboldt penguin found along the coast of Peru and Chile.  

While ninety percent of the world's Galapagos penguins live among the western islands of Fernandina and Isabela, they can also be seen on Santiago, Bartolome, northern Santa Cruz, and Floreana. The northern tip of Isla Isabella crosses the equator, meaning that these animals occasionally visit the northern hemisphere, and are the only species of penguin to do so.   

The Galapagos penguin has a black head with a white border running from behind their eyes, around the black ear-coverts and chin, to join on the throat. Galapagos penguins have blackish-grey upperparts and whitish underparts, with two black bands across the breast, with the lower band extending down the flanks to the thigh.  

Before they breed, the Galapagos penguins moult, and they may do this twice a year. While the Galapagos penguins are moulting, they usually stay out of the water. They are able to go to the sea for food rather than starve though since the water is so warm in their area. Since they moult right before breeding, Galapagos penguins are able to ensure that they will not starve during the moulting process.   

The Galapagos penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the Galapagos penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish.  

Because of the Galapagos Penguin's smaller size, it has many predators both in the water and also on when they are on dry land. On land, the Galapagos penguins must keep an eye out for crabs, snakes, owls, and hawks, while in the water they must avoid sharks, fur seals, and sea lions. The Galapagos penguin has also been severely affected by human activity around the archipelago.   

On average, the Galapagos penguin breeds once a year, forming pairs that usually remain faithful to one another. The female Galapagos penguin lays two eggs  which are incubated by both parents for up to 40 days, when only one of the eggs will usually hatch. The Galapagos penguin chicks are fed and kept warm by their parents and remain with them until the chicks are nearly a year old.  

Today, the Galapagos penguin is listed as an endangered species as like many species found around the islands, they are endemic to the area and do not adapt well to sudden changes in their environment.
		 	      

	      The Siberian cat is a domestic cat breed from Russia. The Siberian cat has similarities with breeds such as the Maine Coon and Norwegian Forest Cat, but the Siberian cat is a natural breed and the national cat of Russia.  

Known to be an exceptionally agile jumper, the Siberian cat is a strong and powerfully built cat, with strong hindquarters and large, well rounded paws. They have barrel chests and medium sized ears, broad foreheads, and stockier builds than other domestic cat breeds.  

Siberian cats are often double the size of other domestic cat breeds and have extremely thick, long fur. The fur of the Siberian cat is made of three layers which all help to keep the Siberian cat warm during the bitter Siberian winters.   

The Siberian cat is a popular household pet around the world both due to its large size and its loyal nature. The Siberian cat is known to be very loving and affectionate towards humans and other household animals too.  

The Siberian cat, although popular, is not an easy-to-keep cat as they do need a fair bit of maintenance. The thick fur of the Siberian cat moults twice a year and it has to be brushed regularly in order to keep it in a good condition.		 	      

	       The Shih Tzu is a small breed of dog native to the mountains of Tibet near China. The dog has a long double-coat which provides the shih tzu with the warmth it needs to survive in such a cold climate.  

The shih tzu generally gets to between 13 and 15 years old and are found to be quiet and inquisitive dogs. The shih tzu often makes a good dog to keep with bigger dogs as they can alert the larger dogs of any coming danger.		 	      

	      The possum is a medium-sized marsupial that is natively found in Australia, Papua New Guinea and Sulawesi, which is a tropical island found in the Indonesian Archipelago. Today the possum has also been introduced to New Zealand and parts of China.  

There are 69 different species of possum found in the far east, all of which range of size and colour. The pygmy possum is the smallest species of possum in the world, growing to just 10cm tall, where the brushtail possum can reach more than a meter in height.  

In general, the possum is roughly the same size and weight of a domestic cat. The possum is not to be confused with the opossum, which is found in North America and is the only marsupial which inhabits areas outside of Australia and it's surrounding islands.  

Possums tend to be found inhabiting bush-lands and rainforests where the possums live in hollow trees and logs. The possum lives a predominantly arboreal lifestyle meaning that the possum spends most of it's time in the trees.  

Possums are nocturnal animals and therefore, the possum only hunts for food in the cover of the night. The possum spends the lighter daytimes, resting in hollow trees out of site from predators.  

Possums have long prehensile tails, which are naked on the underside which gives the possum more grip when it is in the trees. Possums also have sharp claws which enable them to climb up tree trunks more easily.  

Possums are omnivorous animals so possums naturally eat a variety of both plants and other animals. Possums feed on almost anything they can find including insects, leaves, flowers, nectar, fruits and even small mammals, birds and reptiles.  

The possum has a number of predators in the wild, which vary depending on the region which the possum inhabits. Foxes, cats and birds of prey are the main predators of the possum but other animals such as Tasmanian devils, dogs, dingos and snakes also prey on the possum.  

The possum is a very solitary animal, and possum individuals only really come together to mate. The possum is thought to breed throughout the year rather than having a strict breeding season. The female possum gives birth to between 2 and 4 baby possums after a gestation period of just a couple of weeks. As with all marsupials, the female possum has a pouch on her tummy which the new born possum babies crawl into and stay until they are bigger, less vulnerable and able to start feeding themselves. Typically only one of the possum babies will survive and emerge from the pouch after 6 or 7 months.  

In some areas, the possum is seen to be a pest as they are known to hunt in urban waste and compost bins in search of food. Possums are generally considered to not be threatened with extinction, although some of the rarer species of possum, such as the cuscus, are threatened animals or even considered to be endangered.		 	      
	      Below you will find some explanations and scientific terms explaining some of the more technical words used on A-Z Animals. 
		 	      

	      Frogs  are amphibians, creatures that inhabit both land and water environments equally successfully. There are thought to be around 5,000 different species of frog around the world.  

Frogs are well known for their coiled, sticky tongue which they project out of their mouths to catch insects. Frogs are also well known for being able to breathe through their skin as well as their lungs.  

Some frogs can leap over 50 times their body length, which results in the frog jumping an enormous height. Many frogs in cooler climates hibernate through the winter in compost heaps and big piles of mud.  

Most species of frog have webbed hands and feet, which  aids the frog in swimming, jumping and even climbing. Frogs tend to lay their eggs (known as frog spawn) in ponds and lakes but some frogs have been known to also lay their eggs in big puddles. Baby frogs are called tadpoles and are completely water-based until the tadpoles develop arms and legs and are able to climb out of the water.  

Frogs are found all over the world with the exceptions of the polar regions. Although this is the case, many of the 5,000 frog species are found in the tropical rainforests of the southern hemisphere in places like South America and Indonesia.  

Frog populations of certain frog species are severely declining mainly due to deforestation and climate change. Frogs are very susceptible to atmospheric changes and many frog species, therefore cannot exist outside of their native habitat.  

Many species of frog, particularly those species of frog living in the tropics, are known to contain chemicals that are poisonous to make the frog inedible for potential predators. The levels of poisons within different frog species differs from mild amounts of poison to large amounts of poison, which can end up being deadly for those animals that eat it.		 	      

	      The guinea fowl is a large wild bird that is natively found inhabiting a variety of habitats across the African continent. Today, the guinea fowl has been introduced to various countries around the world as it is farmed by humans.  

The guinea fowl is a ground-nesting bird and spends much of its time scratching around on the ground in search for something to eat. The guinea fowl often has long, dark coloured feathers and a bald neck and head which makes the guinea fowl a very distinctive bird.  

The guinea fowl is a fairly resilient and highly adaptable bird and the guinea fowl is therefore found naturally in range of habitats. Wild guinea fowl can be found inhabiting jungles, forests, shrublands, grasslands and even areas of desert, depending on the abundance of food.   

In their native Africa, guinea fowl have been used as domestic animals for hundreds of years as the large size of the guinea fowl means that just one bird can provide a great deal of food. Today, guinea fowl are farmed around the world for their meat, eggs and feathers.  

The guinea fowl is an omnivorous bird and therefore has a diet that consists of both plants and other animals. Guinea fowl primarily feed on worms and insects on the ground, along with seeds, berries and small mammals and reptiles.   

The guinea fowl has numerous predators wherever it happens to be. Mammals including wildcats, dogs, wolves and humans and large reptiles such as snakes and crocodiles. are the most common predators of the guinea fowl.  

The female guinea fowl builds a nest out of twigs and leaves on the ground, often somewhere where it is more sheltered. The female guinea fowl lays between 8 and 15 small eggs which hatch after an incubation period of around a month. The guinea fowl chicks, known as keets, remain with their mother until they are big enough to fend for themselves.		 	      

	      The Siberian tiger (also known as the Amur and the Ussuri tiger) is a large subspecies of tiger, found throughout western and central Asia. The Siberian tiger is the largest species of tiger in the world closely followed by the Bengal tiger, found on the Indian subcontinent.  

The Siberian tiger was once found across central and western Asia and throughout Russia, but conflict and deforestation has made the Siberian tiger extinct in much of its native habitat. Today the Siberian tiger's range is restricted to parts of eastern Siberia where it is now a protected species.   

The Siberian tiger is considered to be the largest subspecies of tiger, although recent reports suggest that the Bengal tiger is on average, larger than the Siberian tiger. The Siberian tiger has thick fur to keep it warm during the bitter Siberian winter, that can grow to 4 inches long on its neck and tummy.  

In parts of Siberia where the range of the Siberian tiger's habitat overlaps that of other large predators such as bears and wolves, the Siberian tiger is known to be a more dominant predator either chasing off or killing its competitors.   

The Siberian tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting its prey by stalking it until the Siberian tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. Siberian tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the Siberian tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the Siberian tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the Siberian tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female Siberian tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn Siberian tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the Siberian tiger cubs are introduced to meat. Siberian tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the Siberian tiger is considered to be an endangered species. Despite being the largest of all the tiger species, there are thought to be less than 500 Siberian tigers left in the wild.		 	      

	      The common seal tends to be found in colder waters in many places around the world. Many species of seal inhabit waters in the northern hemisphere and are often found in coastal waters where there is an abundance of food and fewer number of predators.  

There are thought to more than 30 different species of seal found in the world's cooler waters from the smallest species of seal, the Caspian seal to the Elephant seal which is the largest species of seal. Other seal species include the grey seal and the leopard seal which is known for it's highly predatory and aggressive behaviour  Seals are closely related to sea lions and also walruses  

The seal is easy and common prey for many of the world's predators both on land and in water due tho the medium size and generally peaceful and playful nature. Predators of the seal include polar bears, sharks and even humans who hunt the seals mainly for their oil but also for food.  

Seals are highly carnivorous marine animals that primarily hunt fish, squid and crustaceans (like shrimp and crabs). The large leopard seal is known to have a more diverse diet that not only includes larger species of fish but also penguins and the occasional sea bird.  

Surprisingly, seals only spend around half of their time in water as the other half is spent on land. After a gestation period of between 11 months and a year, baby seals (known as seal pups) are born on land. Seal pups develop very quickly and some baby seals are often able to swim within a few hours of birth. Seal pups are born during the spring and summer months when temperatures are warmer and there is plenty of food.  

Generally, seals live until they are about 20 years old but some species of seal live for a shorter period of time, where other seal species can live until they are nearly 40. Due to the fact that seals are a targeted food source for many species of animal, some seals in the wild will only live for a very short period of time.  

 		 	      

	      The grey seal is one of the rarest species of seal in the world with around 40% of the grey seal population inhabiting the cooler waters around the United Kingdom.  

Grey seals are the biggest land breeding mammal in the United Kingdom, but are superbly adapted for life in the sea. Adult grey seals have 2 layers of thick fur and a thick blubber layer of fat to keep them warm at sea.  

Grey seals get all the water they need from their food and a well hydrated grey seal will have bright eyes and tears. Grey seals feed mainly on squid and fish but the grey seal prefers to hunt sandeels and the seabed.  

The hands and feet of a grey seal are formed into webbed flippers with 5 strong claws on each. The grey seal has very powerful rear flippers that propel them through the water, using their tail to help steer. The grey seal also has very powerful shoulders that enable the grey seal to haul out onto steep and slippery rocks, even in a big swell.  

Grey Seal pups have a white coat when born & for up to 3 weeks, then they moult into their adult coat. The grey seal mums feed their pups for 15 to 21 days with a rich milk that is 60% fat and the grey seal pups balloon out very quickly. After this weaning stage the grey seal mums leave their pups and the area. Grey seal pups leave too, as they must teach themselves to feed.  

Life is hard for Grey Seal pups. About 30 to 50 percent of them die before their first birthday. Grey seal mums recognise their own pups calls and know exactly how their own pup smells.  



The Cornwall Seal Group in south west England was set up to monitor the presence (or absence) of seals in a north coast colony.  For more information, please see: cornwallsealgroup.co.uk		 	      

	      Sea turtles are found in all of the major oceans and smaller seas with the exception of the Arctic Circle as it is generally too cold for sea turtles as they tend to prefer more temperate waters. The bigger species of sea turtle are found more in the Southern Hemisphere in the tropical, warmer waters.   

There are 7 known species of sea turtle today including the flatback sea turtle which is native to Australia; the green sea turtle which is found all over the world but there are larger populations of the green sea turtle in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; the hawksbill turtle is a critically endangered species of sea turtle and can be found all over the world; the kemps ridley turtle is the rarest species of sea turtle in the world and is found in the Atlantic ocean and in the Gulf of Mexico; the leatherback sea turtle is the largest species of sea turtle and is the most widely distributed species of sea turtle, found all over the world; the loggerhead sea turtle is known for it's large head and is mainly found in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans; the olive ridley sea turtle is the smallest species of sea turtle and is generally found in the Indo-Pacific and Atlantic oceans.  

Although sea turtles spend their time out at sea, sea turtles always go back to the same beach to breed and often travel huge distances to get there. The female sea turtles bury their eggs in the sand on the beach where they were born. After laying her eggs the female sea turtle will return to the sea, leaving her eggs to hatch in their nest under the sand. When the baby sea turtles hatch, they walk straight into the ocean and begin their life at sea.  

Today, all of the 7 different species of sea turtle are under threat from extinction. The decline in the world's sea turtle population is thought to be mainly due to the sea turtles being caught accidentally by large fishing boats and due to the fact that humans will often take the eggs of the sea turtle to eat as a delicacy. Numerous conservation projects are underway all over the world in order to try to protect and preserve the sea turtle populations that remain.  

The diet of the sea turtle depends on it's particular species. Some species of sea turtle are carnivorous, others are herbivores and some species of sea turtle will eat almost anything. Sea turtles tend to eat sea grasses, shrimp, crabs, fish and jellyfish, depending on what the sea turtle can find and catch.  

Sea turtles have the remarkable ability to travel hundreds (in some cases thousands) of miles in order to get between their feeding grounds and their nesting grounds. Most female sea turtles return to the same beach to nest every time and will often emerge from the water just meters away from from where they nested the time before.  

Sea turtles will often be able to breed for around 30 years with some species of sea turtle not being able to do so until they are 50 years old. Adult sea turtle have few natural predators besides large sharks and being caught up in human fishing nets meaning that they can live to more than 80 years old. Around 90% of baby sea turtles are eaten by smaller predators like raccoons, sea birds and large fish.  

Male and female sea turtles tend to be around the same size. Adult sea turtles vary a great deal in size depending on the species of sea turtle with the smallest sea turtles measuring around 50 cm and largest are nearly 2 m.
		 	      

	      The stick insect (as its name suggests) is an insect that looks like a twig on a branch, bush or tree. This unique identity means that stick insects can be extremely difficult for predators to spot.  

Stick insects are found in the forests, rainforests and jungles around the world where they live a peaceful lifestyle, expertly camouflaged into their surroundings.  

There are more than 3,000 different species of stick insect in the world, with more being thought to have not yet been discovered. Stick insects can range in size from just 3 cm to 30 cm in length.  

Stick insects have long, cylindrical bodies, that are stick-like in both shape and colour. Some stick insect species however have more flattened bodies which make them look more like leaves than sticks.  

The stick insect is a herbivorous animal meaning that the diet of the stick insect is purely a vegetarian one. Stick insects mainly feed on leaves and other green plants, along with the odd berries or fruit.  

Due to their small size, stick insects have numerous predators in their tree-surrounded environment, if they can be seen that is. Birds, small reptiles, and rodents all feed on the stick insect if they are able to find one.  

After mating, the female stick insect lays up to 1,500 eggs which are cleverly camouflage to look like plant seeds. The eggs of the stick insect are able to lay dormant for months before the larvae begin to hatch out of the eggs. When the stick insect larvae first hatch, they already closely resemble and adult stick insect.
		 	      

	      Great white sharks (white shark) are found in coastal waters in every major ocean but the great white shark is most commonly sighted around Australia, South Africa, California and Mexico.  

The great white shark can grow to more than 8m long and weigh well over 2,000kg. This makes the great white shark the worlds largest predatory fish!  The great white shark has been known to attack humans in the water, this is often because the shark mistakes the human for another animal which it normally hunts since sharks do not like the taste of humans.  

The great white shark hunts large fish, seal, porpoise, dolphin and whale, with the great white shark using an ambush technique to surprise their prey in order to secure their catch.  

The great white shark is found in waters from just 1 m deep to 1,200 m deep. The great white shark has approximately 300 teeth which are arranged in a number of rows along both the great white sharks top and bottom jaws.  

Due to the dominance and aggressiveness of the great white shark, the great white shark has no natural predators within the natural environment of the great white shark. The great white has shark has been known to fight with similar sized killer whales (orca) but this is a rare occurrence, and the great white shark has also been known to have been killed by large pods of dolphins that ram the great white shark.  

The greatest predatory threat to the great white shark is the human being, many of whom kill the great white shark for both defensive reasons and for the meat of this apex predator. It is because of the threat to the great white shark from humans that has led to the population numbers of the great white shark decreasing making the great white shark a threatened species today.		 	      

	      The pademelon is a small to medium sized marsupial found inhabiting the forests of Australia and a number of it's surrounding islands.The pademelon is most closely related to the wallaby and the kangaroo.  

There are seven different species of pademelon found in the jungles of the far east, the population numbers of all seven pademelon species are declining primarily due to hunting and habitat loss.  

The pademelon is a solitary and nocturnal animal meaning that the pademelon, spends the light daytime hours resting, and goes foraging for food during the cooler cover of night. The pademelon is most commonly found inhabiting coastal regions of Australia, Papua New Guinea and Tasmania.  

The pademelon spends much of it's waking time, foraging for leaves, grasses, shoots, berries and herbs in it's dense jungle environment. Pademelons also commonly venture into shrublands where they have less cover to feast on the lush plants, if there are no predators around.  

In many areas of forest inhabited by the pademelon, there are often no real predators around but habitat loss in the form of deforestation has caused the pademelon population numbers to decline. In other areas, pademelon are most commonly preyed upon by canines including foxes, dingos, domestic dogs and even the odd cat.  

Those pademelon inhabiting the Tasmanian forests often have more of a variety of predators and are preyed upon by Tasmanian Devils, large snakes, large birds of prey such as eagles, and even by quolls.  

The pademelon is a marsupial meaning that the female pademelon has a pouch on her belly where she nurses her young. After mating the infant pademelon will be born just 30 days later, when it has to make its own way into it's mother's pouch.  

Baby pademelon then spend the next 6 months or so growing growing and developing inside the pouch and eventually begin to venture out into the outside world.		 	      

	      The pygmy marmoset is a tiny primate that is exclusively found in the jungles of South America. The pygmy marmoset is known to be the smallest known species of monkey in the world.  

The pygmy marmoset averages at about 15cm tall, with a 20cm long tail behind it. The pygmy marmoset has sharp claws which make the pygmy marmoset excellent at climbing trees and the long tail of the pygmy marmoset gives this little monkey fantastic balance when jumping between tree branches.  

The low weight of the pygmy marmoset allows the pygmy marmoset to reach the canopy tree tops, a place where many of the larger species of monkey cannot reach. Here the pygmy marmoset eats fruits, berries, insects and small reptiles safely high above any dangerous predators.  

The small size of the pygmy marmoset means that it has developed a number of nicknames from locals and tourists alike, such as the pocket monkey and the little lion. The tiny size of this miniature monkey means that the pygmy marmoset if often very difficult to observe in the wild.  

The pygmy marmoset has been increasingly popular as an exotic pet, but they are very hard to keep. When a baby pygmy marmoset is taken away from the family it can often die quickly due to depression. Baby pygmy marmosets also need feeding every two hours for their first two weeks in the world so they can be very time-consuming pets. Pet pygmy marmosets can take a grave dislike towards their owners and some have been known to bite their owners and throw feces at them, as a form of attack.  

After a gestation period of around 4.5 months, the female pygmy marmoset gives birth to one or two babies. The male pygmy marmoset will often carry the babies after birth until they are big enough and strong enough to look after themselves.  

Pygmy marmosets live in groups which tend to consist of the head male and female pygmy marmosets and their offspring, usually about four litters. There can be more than one male in a pygmy marmoset troop, but the dominant male pygmy marmoset will remain the dominant male of that troop. 		 	      

	       Although Greyhounds are extremely fast and athletic, and despite their reputation as racing dogs, they are not high-energy dogs. They are sprinters, and although they love running, they do not require extensive exercise.  

 Most are quiet, gentle animals. An adult Greyhound will stay healthy and happy with a daily walk of as little as 20 to 30 minutes.  

The greyhound has been referred to as a 45mph couch potato!		 	      

	      The striped rocket frog is a small species of rocket frog natively found on mainland Australia and on a number of the islands that are both close to it and surround it. The striped rocket frog is closely related to other species of rocket frog, all of which are named for their remarkably agile jumping abilities and their streamlined-shaped bodies.  

The striped rocket frog is found mostly in coastal areas from northern Western Australia to New South Wales in the south and is also found inhabiting lowland areas of parts of the tropical Indonesian island of Papua New Guinea. The striped rocket frog is found in a variety of wetland habitats including swamps, ponds and flooded grasslands in forests and open woodland.  

The striped rocket frog is an easily identifiable species of frog due to its relatively small size and the two stripe-like folds of skin the run vertically down the striped rocket frog's back. The skin of the striped rocket frog is usually a dark brown colour and has dark spot-like markings across it's back and legs. The striped rocket frog has a narrow and streamlined body which makes for more agile movement through both the air and water.  

The striped rocket frog has incredibly long and powerful legs which can propel this little frog over vast distances (comparable with it's size). The striped rocket is actually a type of tree frog but despite this, the striped rocket frog spends the majority of it's life on the ground due to the fact that they sticky discs on their toes are simply not big enough to allow them to climb with ease.  

Like most other species of frog, the striped rocket frog is a carnivorous animal that catches the majority of it's using it's long and sticky tongue. The striped rocket frog primarily feeds on small invertebrates such as insects, moths and spiders along with worms and insect larvae. The webbed feet of the striped rocket frog mean that this animal is able to hunt effectively both on land and in the water.  

Due to the fairly small size of the striped rocket frog, it has numerous predators within its natural environment. Large birds and bats prey on the striped rocket frog from the skies and ground-dwelling predators such as cats and foxes prey on this species on the ground. The water-based eggs and tadpoles of the striped rocket frog are preyed upon by aquatic animals including fish and other frogs.  

In the same way as other species of frogs (and indeed toads), the striped rocket frog undergoes the incredible metamorphic process of turning from the young aquatic tadpole, to the generally ground-dwelling adult. Females lay an average of 60 eggs in a sticky mass known as frogspawn which floats on the surface of the water. When they are ready, the hatching tadpoles drop into the water where they begin there life underwater.  

Today, the striped rocket frog has been listed as Least concern as although it is not deemed to be under immediate threat from extinction, the striped rocket frog populations have been affected in much of the native range from deforestation and the introduction of mammalian predators.
		 	      

	      Puma Classification and Evolution
The Puma is a large, secretive Cat predominantly found in the mountains from southern Canada to the tip of South America. Also commonly known as the Cougar and the Mountain Lion, Pumas are able to reach larger sizes than some 'big' cat individuals but despite their large size they are believed to be more closely related to smaller feline species. Due to their extensive distribution, there are 7 subspecies of Puma all of which share similar characteristics but tend to vary slightly in colour and occasionally size. The Puma is thought to be one of the most adaptable felines on the American continents as they are found in a variety of different habitats and unlike numerous Cat species, the Puma has no markings on it's fur leading to it's scientific name Felis concolor which means 'cat of one colour'.  
Puma Anatomy and Appearance
Due to the fact that the majority of Pumas are found in more mountainous regions, they have a thick coat of fur which helps to keep them warm in the freezing winters. Depending on the subspecies and location, the Puma's fur varies in colour from brown-yellow to grey-red, with those individuals found in colder regions being more grey and those found in warmer areas having more of a red tinge to their fur. The Puma is an incredibly powerful predator and has muscular hind legs that are slightly longer and stronger than the front, which makes them more agile when leaping. The also have enormous paws which are very large in comparison to their body size. The Puma has large wide-set eyes which not only enable it to see what is ahead of it, but they can also see for some distance around them as well. They have pointed ears and their acute hearing allows them to detect prey even when it is too dark for them to see.   
Puma Distribution and Habitat
The Puma is found in the mountains throughout South and North America where it inhabits rocky crags and pastures slightly lower down than the slopes than the grazing herbivores. Although these seem to be the Puma's preferred conditions they are extremely adaptable animals that can be found in a variety of habitats including forests, tropical jungle, grasslands and even in more arid desert regions. However, with expanding Human settlements and land clearance for agriculture, the Puma is being pushed into smaller pockets of it's historically vast range, retreating into more hostile mountain environments that are further away from people. It is widely believed however that the Puma's adaptability has been vital in ensuring that it doesn't disappear from the wild forever.  
Puma Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Puma is a solitary animal with the exception of the time cubs spend with their mother. Pumas patrol large home ranges in search of food which varies from 80 square miles in the summer to 40 in the winter, when the falling snow restricts access to a number of mountain areas. Some regions can become so hostile that Pumas migrate from the mountain forests and go down into the valleys to escape the worst of the cold. Not only can Pumas easily adapt to different surroundings but they are also able to hunt effectively during the day or night. Their strong and muscular hind legs and large paws mean that the Puma can move about amongst the rocks more quickly and with greater agility. Pumas are known to make a variety of different sounds particularly when warning another Puma away from their territory and during the mating season when they are looking for a mate.   
Puma Reproduction and Life Cycles
The breeding season tends to occur between December and March with litters of up to 6 cubs being born after a three month gestation period, generally between February and September. After mating, the male and the female part company and he will continue to mate with other females for the duration of the season. Like numerous other felines, Puma cubs are born blind and are completely helpless for their first two weeks of life until their blue eyes fully open. Unlike the one-colour adult Pumas, cubs are born with spots on their fur which helps them to be more easily camouflaged from hungry predators. They are able to eat solid food when they are between 2 and 3 months old and remain with their mother for about a year. Many Pumas live to an average age of 12 years but they have been known to reach 25 years old in captivity.  
Puma Diet and Prey
The Puma is a large and powerful carnivore, hunting and eating only other animals in order to survive. The majority of the Puma's diet is comprised of small animals like Mice, Rats, Birds, Fish and Rabbits that are found living in a high abundance on the fertile mountain slopes and in the lowland forests. The large size of the Puma though also means that it can hunt bigger animals including Sheep, Raccoons, Goats and livestock which it catches by pouncing onto the animal to secure it. The Puma is not only big, but it's agile and incredibly muscular body means that it can easily outrun many of the species that it hunts.  
Puma Predators and Threats
The Puma is one of the most dominant predators throughout much of their natural environment and are therefore rarely preyed upon by other species. It has been known however, for Pumas that are vulnerable due to sickness or injury to be preyed upon by other large predators including Bears and Wolves, and even other Pumas. The biggest threat to the Puma however is people who have not only hunted this large Cat (mainly for it's fur) but the Puma has also been subjected to drastic habitat loss throughout much of it's natural range, mainly due to expanding Human settlements and deforestation for agriculture. In some areas they are also hunted by ranch owners who blame Pumas for their loss of livestock.  
Puma Interesting Facts and Features
One of the most obvious reasons as to why this large and powerful feline is not classified as one of the world's 'big' Cats is that Pumas are not able to roar. This is something distinctive to the 'big' Cat family as no other feline is able to do so. The powerful hind legs of the Puma are so muscular that they not only allow them to pounce on and secure their prey, but they are also able to leap enormous distances of up to 20ft. One of the most famous subspecies of Puma is the Florida Panther which is the smallest of the Puma species and also the rarest. Thought to be on the brink of extinction, this endangered animal has more of a red tinge to the fur on it's back along with having a dark spot in the centre.   
Puma Relationship with Humans
The Puma is fearsome predator and although attacks on Humans are rare, they do occur nonetheless. There have been nearly 100 recorded attacks on Humans but most of these occur because the Puma has been cornered or feels threatened in some way. Rare cases of severe starvation have also led to Pumas attacking Humans although this is not that common as people are not generally seen as prey to them. Puma population numbers throughout both North and South America have been declining over the past century particularly, mainly due to habitat loss and the shooting of Pumas by farmers who fear for their animals.   
Puma Conservation Status and Life Today
Despite being pushed into smaller regions of their vast historical range, the Puma has been listed by the IUCN as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in it's natural environment in the immediate future. This is because Pumas are not only incredibly adaptable animals but they are also quiet common in the more remote mountainous regions. In fact, many feel that it is the Pumas ability to adapt to a number of different environments that has been the reason as to why the population is still as numerous as it is. 
		 	      

	      The porcupine is one of the worlds largest rodents, with porcupines weighing around 12 kg. The porcupine is thought to be from the same family as the hedgehog but the DNA of the porcupine is not as old as that of the hedgehog.  

The porcupine is found inhabiting the forests and jungles of Asia, Europe, parts of Africa, and both North and South America. The porcupine has a mainly herbivorous diets but occasionally also feeds on insects, small reptiles and eggs.  

The porcupine has a coat of long spikes to protect itself from danger. The porcupine spikes are much longer than the spines of the hedgehog.   

There are nearly 30 different species of porcupine found in their native habitats around the world. The porcupine can vary in size from a tiny 1 kg porcupine in South America to the enormous 10 kg porcupine in Africa. Porcupines tend to be brown and grey in colour, but some of the rarer porcupine species can be found in white.  

The sharp, needle-like quills of the porcupine are about 7 cm long and can be detached very easily. The attacker of a porcupine can easily end up with sharp quills in their skin which are venomous and very difficult (not to mention painful) to extract. It has been known for large predators be die as a result of the quills of the porcupine, generally from infection.  

Porcupines are very vocal during mating season and the gestation period is about 7 months, when only one porcupine pup is born. Newborn porcupine pups weigh around 450 g and are about 25 cm (10 inches) long. The young porcupines are not born with functional quills as they are soft and take time to harden. The porcupine pup will stay with its mother for about 6 months.
		 	      

	      The scorpion is an eight-legged carnivorous anthropod, that are found worldwide. There are around  2,000 different species of known scorpion found in most countries around the world today.  

The scorpion is mainly found in the southern hemisphere in deserts and jungle habitats alike. The most northern place the scorpion can be found in the wild is the Isle of Sheppey in the United Kingdom, which is a small island in the North of Kent.  

The general age range for most species of scorpion is between 6 months and 25 years, although the actual lifespan of most species of scorpion is unknown as they are very elusive animals in the wild and are often hard to spot due to their generally small size.  

Scorpions are arachnids  (not insects) and the scorpion is most closely related to spiders and ticks. Scorpions are sometimes referred to as ancient animals as scorpions have been on Earth for over 400 million years, meaning that scorpions already existed on Earth when the dinosaurs arrived.  

Scorpions are generally nocturnal animals meaning that they spend the day under rocks and in crevices and then come out to hunt in the safety of darkness. Scorpions are carnivorous animals and paralyze their prey using the venomous sting on the end of their tail so that the scorpion can eat it without trouble. Scorpions also have two large claws or pincers which are located at the front of the body of the scorpion. The claws of the scorpion allow the scorpion to effectively hold onto prey in order to both sting it and then eat it.  

Female scorpions give birth to live young in litters that can range from 4 baby scorpions to 8 or 9 baby scorpions. The baby scorpion climbs onto the back of the mother scorpion almost immediately after birth. The mother scorpion will look after her baby scorpions until they are able to hunt for themselves.  

For the majority of the time, when a human is stung by a scorpion, the symptoms are often similar to those of a bee sting and are often just swollen and painful. However, around 50 scorpion species are thought to carry enough venom that could cause more serious harm to humans and around half of those 50 scorpion species are believed to be capable of causing fatal results when having stung a human being. 		 	      

	       Despite its name, the siberian husky is mainly bred in North America and the United States, originally  a working dog.  

The husky has a thick fur coat which enables the dog to be adequately warm in sub-zero temperatures. This means the husky is often used in the mountains of Alaska and Canada mainly for pulling sleds.		 	      

	      Roseate Spoonbill Classification and Evolution
The Roseate Spoonbill is a large species of wading Bird, found from the Gulf Coast of the United States to Argentina at the tip of South America. The Roseate Spoonbill is one of six Spoonbill species found across the world, and although they all inhabit warmer, tropical climates, the Roseate Spoonbill is the only one that is found in the western hemisphere. Like all Spoonbill species, the Roseate Spoonbill is named for it's spatula shaped beak, which becomes flatter and broader towards the end, allowing the Roseate Spoonbill to scoop food out of the water with ease. They are closely related to other large wading Birds including, Herons, Storks and Egrets and are often mistaken in Florida for Flamingoes, particularly by tourists.  
Roseate Spoonbill Anatomy and Appearance
The Roseate Spoonbill is said to be one of the most distinctive Birds found in North America, with their pink and white plumage, orange tail-feathers, red legs and eyes and black feet. Like all wading Birds, the legs of the Roseate Spoonbill are thin and very long, allowing them to walk about in the shallow waters without getting their head or feathers wet. Their distinctively long beak is very sensitive to enable the Bird to easily detect the presence of prey, and has two small slits close to the top meaning that the Roseate Spoonbill can still breathe whilst it's beak is submerged in the water. The skin on their head is featherless and often has a greenish tinge to it, leading to their lighter coloured beak.  
Roseate Spoonbill Distribution and Habitat
The Roseate Spoonbill is found along North America's Gulf Coast, most notably in Texas and Florida. It's range extends through Central America, down to Argentina at the bottom of the South American continent, and they can also be found on islands like the Bahamas, the Caribbean and Cuba. The Roseate Spoonbill can be found in fresh, salt or brackish waters, where the water level is low and is close to roosting sites. The Roseate Spoonbill is most commonly found in shallow wetlands from bays and estuaries, to mangrove swamps and tidal ponds. Despite drastic falls in population numbers in the USA in the late 1800s, the Roseate Spoonbill colonies there are now healthy and sustainable through much of their native regions.  
Roseate Spoonbill Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Roseate Spoonbill is a very sociable Bird that inhabits it's wetland homes with other Roseate Spoonbills, and they are also commonly found in the presence of other waders including Herons, Egrets and Ibises which they are closely related to. The Roseate Spoonbill is a fairly large Bird, making it's flying style long and slow. They fly together in small flocks in diagonal lines with their necks and heads outstretched, when moving between habitats or migrating to their annual nesting sites. The Roseate Spoonbill is often seen in small flocks when feeding but they have also been found to do this on their own as well. In the wild, they are known to be particularly shy Birds, with the whole colony known to fly away if startled, but have been known to adapt well to Human disruption when kept in captivity.  
Roseate Spoonbill Reproduction and Life Cycles
The Roseate Spoonbill is a colonial nester, meaning that they gather in large numbers to produce and rear their young, possibly for protection. Roseate Spoonbills reach sexual maturity at the age of 3 or 4, when they migrate to appropriate nesting grounds to find a mate. Once paired up on coastal islands, both the male and female construct a nest in trees, thick bushes or reeds where up to four eggs are laid per clutch. The Roseate Spoonbill chicks usually hatch after an incubation period of around three weeks, and fledge after about a month. The young Roseate Spoonbills have white plumage with a slight pink tinge, and often won't develop the colourful adult feathers for at least a couple of years. Both the incubating of the eggs and the feeding of the chicks is shared by the male and female parents.  
Roseate Spoonbill Diet and Prey
The Roseate Spoonbill is an omnivorous animal that uses it's spoon-like beak to catch small animals in the water. The Roseate Spoonbill sweeps this distinctively shaped bill from side to side close to the bottom of the water, creating little whirlpools of water that trap prey inside them, enabling the Roseate Spoonbill to feed. Although they will eat a number of both plant and animal species, small Fish such as Minnows are the primarily source of food for the Roseate Spoonbill, comprising roughly 85% of it's diet. The rest is made up with the consumption of other small aquatic organisms like Shrimp, Molluscs and aquatic Insects that lurk close to the muddy bottom, along with a number of aquatic plant species.  
Roseate Spoonbill Predators and Threats
Despite the large size of the Roseate Spoonbill, it is not uncommon for them to be hunted by hungry predators. Alligators in the water, along with felines like Pumas and Jaguars are the most common predators of the adults in their natural environment, but it is Humans that pose the biggest threat to them, mainly through hunting. The eggs and more vulnerable chicks of the Roseate Spoonbill are in even more danger as they are preyed upon by a variety of species including Raccoons, Coyotes and Hawks. One of the biggest threats to Roseate Spoonbill populations today is the loss of their native habitats, mainly seeing that many of these natural wetlands have been either drained or pollution has caused the water to become contaminated.   
Roseate Spoonbill Interesting Facts and Features
Despite it's very distinctive appearance, the Roseate Spoonbill is often mistaken for other Birds like the Flamingo, particularly when in flight, even though they are generally smaller in size and have a longer, wider beak than these pinker Birds. Not only is their distinctive spoon-like bill useful for catching food though, but there are also very sensitive nerves at the end, which causes the Roseate Spoonbill's beak to snap shut quickly when it comes into contact with small aquatic organisms. It is widely believed that the reason for the bright pink plumage of the Roseate Spoonbill, is due to the algae eaten by the Crustaceans that these Birds consume (in a similar way to the Flamingo but not quite as bright).   
Roseate Spoonbill Relationship with Humans
The Roseate Spoonbill is known to be very wary of Human presence, quite probably because the populations in Florida particularly, where hunted almost to extinction in the mid to late 1800s for their plumage. It is thought that populations were originally affected as these Birds commonly socialize with other waders including Egrets, which were a prime target for hunters who sold their lush feathers to go into the making of luxury ladies garments in particular. With the almost extinction of this species in North America at the turn of the century, awareness of their loss became more apparent, finally leading to their protection and conservation of their habitats in the mid 1940s.  
Roseate Spoonbill Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Roseate Spoonbill is listed as an animal that is of Least Concern of becoming extinct in the wild in the immediate future. With populations having re-built and sustained themselves since they were listed as a protected species in the 1940s, this big wader is once again found in large numbers through much of it's natural range. However, despite not being hunted so much any more by Humans, the Roseate Spoonbill is being affected by habitat loss in many areas, which is mainly caused by water pollution.
		 	      

	       Poodles are intelligent, alert, and active. Historically, their aptitude has made them ideal for performing in circuses across the globe for centuries. Otherwise notable is this breeds keen sense for instinctual behavior. In particular, marking and hunting drives are more readily observable than in most other breeds.  

 Even Toys will point birds. Classified as highly energetic, poodles can also get bored fairly easily and have been known to get creative about finding mischief.  

Poodles are extremely people-oriented dogs and generally eager to please. They are excellent watchdogs, but unlike some working breeds, don't usually become one-person dogs when they are part of a family. Standard Poodles in particular tend to be good with children. Poodles are adaptable and easy to train. Like most dogs, they appreciate daily exercise, such as a walk or a play session. Most are fairly agile and athletic.  

Toy Poodles will play ball and love to fetch. Play time is vital, but one must be sure that they get plenty of rest following long play periods and that fresh water is available at all times.		 	      

	      The otter is a  small mammal that lives both in water and on land. There are 13 known species of otter that inhabit areas all around the world.  

The otter mainly eats aquatic animals such as plankton and fish, but the otter also hunts small amphibians, birds and occasionally small mammals.  

The sea otter from North America have been tracked journeying as far as southern Japan. The sea otter has also been known to grow to more than 1 meter long.  

Otters have a thick coat of fur which enables the otter to be warm in near freezing waters. There is also a series of thin hairs under the otters fur that help to trap air and keep the otter warm.  

The female otter tends to give birth to a few cubs in early spring in burrows in the river bank, where the baby otters are looked after until they are between 4 and 10 months old and ready to fend for themselves.  

 Otter Foot Facts 

The otter has four strong feet that are webbed to allow the otter to swim through the water with ease.
The otter has five toes on each of their four feet that give the otter the strength to swim in the water on the stability when climbing up muddy river banks.
On each of the toes of the otter, there are sharp strong claws which add to the strength and performance of their feet both in water and on land.
The back feet of the otter are generally slightly bigger and more flipper-like than the front feet of the otter which helps to propel the otter along in the water.
The otter makes the most of its front and back feet by moving its front feet together and its back feet together which enables the otter to swim smoothly and quickly through the water.

  
 Otter Teeth Facts 

The otter is a fantastic fisher and is able to catch nearly all of its food in its sharp teeth at the front of the mouth of the otter.
An adult otter has 32 teeth including four sharp canine teeth that are found at the front of the mouth of an otter and are used for holding onto and biting their prey.
The molar teeth in the mouth of the otter are flat on top and slightly rounded as they are designed to crush the food of the otter rather than to chew it.
The teeth of the otter are built to eat animals with shells such as crabs and snails so the teeth of the otter are wide and flat.
Some species of otter such as the otter, do in fact have purple teeth rather than white teeth which is caused by these otters eating purple coloured sea urchins.

		 	      

	       The stern expression of the Pug belies its true sense of fun. Pugs are sociable dogs, and usually stubborn about certain things, but they are playful, charming, clever and are known to succeed in dog obedience skills.  

 Pugs are often referred to as the comedians of the dog world. Pugs are sensitive to the tone of a human voice, so harsh punishment is generally unnecessary. While Pugs usually get along well with other dogs and pets, they generally prefer the company of humans and require a great deal of human attention they may become slightly anxious or agitated if their owner ignores them or does not play with them.  

 In general, they are very attentive dogs, always at their owners feet, in their lap, or following them from room to room.		 	      

	      Panther Classification and Evolution
The Panther (also commonly known as the Black Panther) is a large member of the Big Cat family, native to Asia, Africa and the Americas. The Panther is not a distinct species itself but is the general name used to refer to any black coloured feline of the Big Cat family, most notably Leopards and Jaguars. The Panther is an elusive and powerful animal that has adapted well to a variety of habitats around the world, and is known to be one of the strongest climbers of all felines. Although the Panther is not technically classified as a separate species, they are considered to be endangered by many due to the declining numbers of both Leopards and Jaguars throughout much of their natural ranges.   
Panther Anatomy and Appearance
The Panther tends to be dark brown to black in colour and is otherwise identical to the feline species to which it belongs. The only real exception to this is the Florida Panther found in the south east region of the USA, that is believed to be a subspecies of Cougar and is quite rarely dark brown in colour and tends to have more of a speckled appearance. Unlike Leopards and Jaguars, the Panther has no spots on it's long body or tail, but instead has a shiny coat of dark fur. Panthers have small heads with strong jaws and emerald green eyes, and tend to have hind legs that are both larger and slightly longer than those at the front. Being a member of the Big Cat family, the Panther is not only one of the largest felines in the world but it is also able to roar which is something that felines outside of this group are not able to do.   
Panther Distribution and Habitat
Panthers are natively found on three of the world's continents, with their location depending on whether or not it is a black Leopard or a Black Jaguar. There are 30 different subspecies of Leopard found across both Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, and with the once large natural range of the Jaguar stretching throughout Central and South America and even into parts of the USA, the Panther has become an incredibly adaptable animal that is found in a variety of different habitats. Although they are most commonly found in tropical and deciduous forests, the Panther can also be found inhabiting both marsh and swampland, along with grasslands and even more hostile areas such as deserts and mountains. Along with a number of the world's largest felines, the Panther is becoming rarer in the wild primarily due to habitat loss in the form of deforestation.   
Panther Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Panther is an incredibly intelligent and agile animal that is very seldom seen by people in the wild as they are generally very quiet and cautious animals. Their dark brown fur camouflages the Panther both into the surrounding forest and makes them almost invisible in the darkness of night. The Panther is a solitary animal that leads a nocturnal lifestyle, spending much of the daylight hours resting safely high in the trees. Like both the Leopard and the Jaguar, Panthers are incredible climbers and they not only rest in the trees but they are also able to keep a watchful eye out for prey without being spotted. The Panther is an incredibly powerful and fearless animal that is feared by many due to the fact that they are also very aggressive. The Panther is very territorial particularly males whose home ranges overlap those of a number of females and they are threatened by another male.   
Panther Reproduction and Life Cycles
Although there are only two different species of Big Cat that are considered to be Panthers, Leopards and Jaguars are actually very closely related despite living in separate parts of the world. Black Leopards and Jaguars often occur in the same litter as spotted cubs with the female usually giving birth to between 2 and 4 cubs after a gestation period of around 3 months (it is a simple recessive gene that makes a cub black and one that is carried by both parents). Panther cubs are born blind and do not open their eyes until they are nearly two weeks old. They are incredibly vulnerable to predators, particularly when left by their mother who must hunt for their food. By the time they are a few months old Panther cubs begin to accompany her in search of prey and often won't leave her until they are nearly 2 years old and have established a territory for themselves.  
Panther Diet and Prey
The Panther is a carnivorous animal and one of the most feared and powerful predators throughout it's natural environment. Hunting under the cover of night, the Panther's dark fur makes it almost impossible to spot meaning that it can move through the jungle completely unseen. Although the majority of their hunting is actually done on the ground, they are also known to hunt from trees meaning that they can ambush their prey from above. The exact diet of the Panther is dependent on where in the world it lives although medium to large sized herbivores comprise the bulk of the diet of many large Cats. Animals including Deer, Warthogs, Wild Boar, Tapir and Antelope are all hunted by Panthers, along with smaller species like Birds and Rabbits when larger prey is scarce.   
Panther Predators and Threats
The Jaguar is the largest feline in the Americas and so Panthers in the New World are the most dominant predators within their environments. Those found in Africa and Asia however are occasionally preyed upon by other large carnivores such as Lions and Hyenas, but the most common predator and biggest threat to all Panthers is people. Not only have these rare animals been hunted by people throughout much of their natural range but they have also been subjected to drastic habitat loss particularly in the form of deforestation for both growing Human settlements and to make way for agriculture. Population numbers of large Cats are declining all around the world and when they are being pushed into smaller and smaller pockets of their native habitats, Panthers are becoming even rarer than they already were.  
Panther Interesting Facts and Features
Although technically only black Leopards and Jaguars are generally considered to be the only true Panthers by science, the term is also used to describe a number of other dark coated Cats by locals in their native habitats including Cougars, Tigers, Pumas, Lynxes and Bobcats. The Black Panther is seen to be one of the most intelligent and ferocious predators in America so the image of a Panther is widely used as a logo or as a mascot for sports teams. Some Panthers are actually able to swim, although not those that are Leopards, as Jaguars are known to have a real love of water. Not only do these individuals prefer flooded forests but they spend a remarkable amount of time swimming, playing and hunting in the cooling water.   
Panther Relationship with Humans
The world's Big Cats have been hunted by people as both trophies and for their fur particularly over the past couple of centuries. This caused enormous declines in population numbers of both Leopards and Jaguars with them having actually completely disappeared from some areas of their historic range. Panthers have also been subjected to severe habitat degradation throughout much of Asia, Africa and America which means that these elusive predators are now even rarer. They are very rarely seen by people who are only really ever aware of a Panther's presence by their tracks left on the ground and scratch marks on trees. They are in fact so sneaky that Panthers are often referred to as 'the ghost of the forest'.  
Panther Conservation Status and Life Today
Although the Panther is not considered to be a species itself by science, both Leopards and Jaguars are becoming increasingly vulnerable throughout much of their natural range and are listed as Threatened species by the IUCN. However, due to the fact that two gene carrying individuals must mate to produce a Black Panther and the chances of this are decreasing with habitat loss, many wildlife experts consider these animals to be endangered all around the world.
		 	      

	      The millipede is a medium to large sized invertebrate that is found under rocks and in decaying logs all around the world. The millipede has a long and narrow body which is made up of segments.  

The millipede is from the same family as the centipede, but the millipede generally has more legs for it's body length than the centipede. The average millipede has between 80 and 400 legs, not a thousand as the name suggests.  

The millipede is found all over the world but is more common in the southern hemisphere where the millipede has been known to get to nearly 40cm long. Some species of millipede have a poisonous bite which they use to kill their prey before eating it.  

Millipedes are most commonly found in the cooler, damper and darker places within their environment. Millipedes inhabit areas under rocks, in the leaf litter, in rotting logs and occasionally in burrows which are all known as micro-habitats.  

The exact number of legs and segments that make up the body of the millipede, depend on the millipede species. However, all millipedes are made up in a similar way with the first sections of the millipede's body having one pair of legs and the later sections of two pairs of legs. The legs of millipede all work together and move in a wave-like motion.  

The millipede is an omnivorous animal but primarily feeds on dead plant material and decaying matter on the forest floor. Millipedes are also known to eat some species of plants (that are alive0) and the larger species of millipede also hunt insects.  

The millipede has a number of different predators in it's natural environment including birds, badgers, foxes and small rodents such as shrews and rats. When the millipede feels that it is in danger it curls up into a spiral and some species of millipede even release a disgusting smelling liquid that deters many of the animals that prey on the millipede.  

The female millipede can lay up to 1,000 sticky eggs at once although the number of millipede eggs laid is usually closer to 500. When the baby millipedes hatch they only have 3 pairs of legs but they shed their skin as they grow. Each time the baby millipedes shed their skin they develop more body segments and legs.
		 	      

	      Termites are sociable insects, found in their millions all over the world. Termites feed on dead plant matter, rotten wood and soil and often create mounds out of dirt to support the termite colony.  

Termite colonies can vary in size from just hundreds of termites to several million termite individuals. As with other insects, such as the ant, termites lead a sociable existence and therefore abide by social hierarchy. Individual termites all have their position within the colony either worker termites, soldier termites or reproducer termites.  

Termites are known as detritivores, which means that they eat decomposing plant matter. Around 10% of the estimated 4,000 different termite species are known as pests, as they can cause damage to buildings and agricultural land.  

The termite workers build and maintain elaborate nests to house their termite colony. The termites use soil, mud, chewed wood, saliva, and faeces in their nest construction. Enormous termite mounds are commonly seen in tropical and sub-tropical regions. Termite mounds are often found as high as 3 meters, but most are usually smaller. Termite mounds however, have been known to get to more than 9 meters tall.  

Termites are herbivorous animals meaning that they only eat organic plant matter. Termites eat a mixture of plants, grasses and woods and some termites are known to pose a major problem to wooden houses as they eat their way through the wood, often causing structural damage.  

In many cultures around in the world, termites are eaten as part of a normal diet. Termites are extremely nutritious as they have a good store of both fat and protein. Termites are also a nutritional food source for all kinds of animals from birds, to reptiles, to mammals.		 	      

	      Temperate forests grow in regions that have a wide range of climates, and despite the fact there are fewer plant and animals species than in the rainforest, temperate forests are one of the richest habitats on the planet. Temperate forests contain numerous different animals that live within them and even migratory animals like birds, nest in these forests around the world.  

There are two main types of temperate forest, which are deciduous forests and evergreen forests. Deciduous forests can appear to be empty, lifeless places in winter when there are no leaves on the trees but come spring, these forests are bursting with life. Deciduous forests tend to be found in the Northern Hemisphere, in parts of Europe, Japan and North America.   

Evergreen forests differ from deciduous forests  as the trees don't lose their leaves in the autumn. The evergreen forests are generally seen in warmer climates in southern Europe, South Africa, South America and parts of southern Australia. Evergreen forests tend to have a more varied range of wildlife than the deciduous forests.  

A wide variety of animals inhabit these regions of temperate forests around the world including mammals, reptiles, birds and numerous different species of insect. Deer, squirrels and wild boars are the most commonly seen mammals in the deciduous forests, along with birds that nest in the trees. In the far eastern deciduous forests, amphibians such as salamanders can be found in the leaf-litter, and reptiles such as lizards are commonly spotted in the trees.  

The wildlife in the evergreen forests, differs greatly from the wildlife in the deciduous forests, mainly due to the fact that food is plentiful in evergreen forests all year round. Lizards and snakes are commonly spotted inhabiting these forests, along with numerous amphibians, birds and insects. In the Australian evergreen forests, marsupials such as koalas and possums can also be found.  

It thought that these temperate forests once covered huge areas of the Northern Hemisphere but today the areas of remaining natural forest are few and far between. The main reason for the drastic decline in forests is deforestation, as the trees are cut down for wood (known as logging), or when parts of the forest are cleared to make room for agriculture.
		 	      

	      The pink fairy armadillo (Chlamyphorus truncatus) which is also known as the Pichiciego is the smallest species of armadillo known.   

This particular species of armadillo generally ranges between 90-115 mm in length, excluding its tail, and will weigh less than a pound. Similarly, this is the only species of armadillo that has its dorsal shell almost completely separate from its body.  

This unique animal resides in the dry grasslands and sandy plains of central Argentina. This sandy environment works well for the pink fairy armadillo since they are excellent diggers. In fact, they have the ability to completely bury themselves in a matter of seconds if threatened.   

The pink fairy armadillo uses their digging abilities to burrow in areas beside large ant colonies. Ants provide a constant food source for this species of armadillo. As well, they may also forage on worms, snails and plant matter but ants are their number one choice.   

This armadillo tends to live a solitary life in which it stays protected underground only to come out and feed at night. Although, they are solitary it is believed that the pink fairy armadillo is polygamous when it comes to mating. Usually the female will give birth to one young, whose shell will not become completely hardened until it is fully grown.   

The pink fairy armadillo will spend most of its time underground similar to a mole. The large front claws allow them to effortlessly move the sand. In fact they move underground as if they were swimming through the water. The aerodynamics of the armadillo as well as the shielded head makes this type of movement possible.  

Unfortunately, due to habitat destruction, the population of the pink fairy armadillo is decreasing and they have been listed as Threatened since 1970. \n\n		 	      

	      The rockhopper penguin is a group of penguins that are closely related and share the same love of jumping over rocks to get about, rather sliding around on their bellies in the normal penguin fashion. There are three different species of rockhopper penguin which are the western rockhopper penguin, the eastern rockhopper penguin and the northern rockhopper penguin.  

Rockhopper penguins are found throughout the sub-Antarctic and in regions of the southern Indian and Pacific Oceans. The regions occupied by the rockhopper penguin depend on the species. The western rockhopper is found around the tip of the South America; the eastern rockhopper breeds on sub-Antarctic islands of the Indian and western Pacific oceans and the northern rockhopper penguin breeds on islands of Tristan da Cunha as well as on Amsterdam and St Paul Islands.   

The rockhopper is a small sized species of penguin that is similar in appearance to the slightly larger royal penguin and the macaroni penguin. Rockhopper penguins have black-grey upper parts and a straight, bright yellow eyebrow ending in long yellowish plumes projecting sideways behind a red eye. Their beaks are usually orange/red in colour.  

All penguins are fantastic swimmers and the rockhopper penguin is no exception. Rockhopper penguins use their powerful flippers and streamlined bodies, aided by their webbed feet to soar through the water. Their unique way of moving about on land also means that the rockhopper penguin is able to inhabit even more extreme environments than other penguin species.  

The rockhopper penguin is a carnivorous animal, that like all other penguin species, survives on a diet that is only comprised of marine animals. Krill and small crustaceans make up the bulk of the rockhopper penguin's diet along with larger organisms including squid and various species of fish. Rockhopper penguins can be at sea for days at a time whilst hunting and catch their food by diving deep into the water for minutes at a time.  

The rockhopper penguin has no natural land-based predators due to the fact that rockhopper penguins inhabit pretty harsh environments, uninhabitable to other animals . Large leopard seals hunt the rockhopper penguin in the water along with large sharks and killer whales. Rockhopper penguin population have also been seriously affected by human hunting, and are easily affected by changes in the water from oil spills and chemical pollutants.  

Rockhopper penguins nest on beaches, high up on the cliffs and sometimes inland on islands throughout the sub-Antarctic (these sites are known as rookeries). The female rockhopper penguin lays two eggs which are incubated for just over a month and usually fledge (leave the nest) when they are between 2 and 3 months old.  

Today, the rockhopper populations throughout the southern hemisphere have been drastically declining and all three species are now at risk. The northern rockhopper penguin is classified as endangered, where the others are not quite in as much danger.
		 	      

	      The pika is a small-sized mammal that is found across the Northern Hemisphere. Despite their rodent-like appearance, pikas are actually closely related to rabbits and hares. Pikas are most commonly identified by their small, rounded body and lack of tail.   

Pikas prefer the colder climates and are generally found in mountainous regions and rocky areas where there tend to be fewer predators. There are more than 30 different species of pika that range in colour and size, across Asia, North America and parts of Europe.   

Pikas are solitary animals and are found inhabiting piles of rocks close to meadows where there is little in the way. Pikas defend their territory by whistling to one another, and their large, rounded ears come in useful to hear the calls from competing pikas.   

Pikas are herbivorous animals and the pika therefore has a diet based on vegetation. The pika is a diurnal animal and forages for grasses, seeds, weeds, thistles and berries during the hours of daylight.  

Although the pika inhabits regions where there are few other animals, the pika has a number of predators mainly due to it's small size. The weasel is the main predator of the pika, along with birds of prey, dogs, foxes and cats.  

During the mating season male and female pikas on opposite territories call to each other and form a pair bond. The female pika is able to produce two litters per year, but usually only one leads to successful young. The female pika gives birth to between 1 and 5 babies, after a gestation period of about a month. When the babies are old enough to be independent, they often settle near to their parents.		 	      

	      Polar Bear Classification and Evolution
The Polar Bear is a large species of bear that is found inhabiting the ice fields in the Arctic Ocean. It is the biggest species of bear in the world (with the exception of the Kodiak Brown Bears found in Alaska which can reach similar sizes) with males often weighing-in at around 600kg. Thought to be closely related to the Brown Bear, the Polar Bears' name actually means "Sea Bear" as they are known to not just spend a great deal of time close to the coast, but are also strong and capable swimmers that have been spotted up to 100 miles from the closest ice or land. They are however being devastatingly affected by global warming as the ice that they rely so heavily on is disappearing fast and has led to the Polar Bear becoming a strong symbol of the effects of climate change. Polar Bear populations have also fallen across the Arctic Ocean due to hunting, pollution and drilling for oil and gas leading to them being as listed as a threatened species,  
Polar Bear Anatomy and Appearance
Adult Polar Bears typically measure more than two meters in length and weigh around half a tonne. Females though are much lighter than their male counterparts that are almost double their weight. Polar Bears are one of the few large mammals found in such hostile conditions and have adapted well to their life on the ice. Their fur is thick and dense and is made up of a warm undercoat with longer guard hairs on top that are clear, hollow tubes that trap warmth from the sun and transmit it directly down to their black skin, which then absorbs the welcome heat. The Polar Bear has a strong and muscular body with broad front paws that help when paddling in the water, and fur on the bottom of it's feet that not only helps to keep them warm but also gives the Polar Bear extra grip when moving about on the ice. They have very long necks in comparison to other bear species which enables their head to remain above the water when swimming. They also have more elongated muzzles and smaller ears than their relatives.    
Polar Bear Distribution and Habitat
Polar Bears are found on the icy coasts that surround the North Pole and as far south as Hudson Bay. Around 60% of Polar Bears can be found in northern Canada with the remaining individuals distributed throughout Greenland, Alaska, Svalbard and Russia, where they tend to be found relatively close to the ocean roaming vast distances across the ice fields. Polar Bear populations have fallen drastically throughout their natural range with the biggest threat to this enormous carnivore being global warming. Although Polar Bears are accustomed to seasonal changes in the Arctic Circle, the summer ice melt is happening earlier and more ferociously year by year, meaning that Polar Bears have less time to hunt on the ice before it disappears. Their precarious habitats are also affected severely by Human encroachment in the forms of hunting, growing settlements and the release of chemical pollutants into the water.   
Polar Bear Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Polar Bear is a solitary animal that can not only run at speeds of up to 25mph but it's strong ability to swim at 6mph makes it a truly apex predator within it's environment. These semi-aqautic mammals can hunt both on the ice and in the water and have been known to swim vast distances across open ocean in search of food. Polar Bears are able to dive under the water to catch their prey which they do by keeping their eyes open and holding their breath for up to two minutes. On land they tend to hunt using two main techniques: they either stalk then chase their prey or sit waiting next to a breathing hole for up to many hours, before ambushing the Seal as it emerges. Eating Seals is vital to the survival of the Polar Bear as they are able to provide it with a high-energy meal. During the short Arctic summer however, Polar Bears are forced further north as the ice recedes when they have to feed on other animals further inland.    
Polar Bear Reproduction and Life Cycles
Polar Bears tend to breed in the spring between April and May with the gestation period then varying considerably (depending on the health of the female) due to a period of delayed implantation. After up to 9 months later the female gives birth to between 1 and 4 cubs in a den which she has dug into the snow or ground. The cubs weigh just over half a kilo when they are newborn and are hairless and cannot see. Females enter their dens towards the end of autumn and don't emerge with their cubs until the harsh winter conditions have turned into spring. Although Polar Bear cubs begin eating solid food when they are around 5 months old, they are not weaned until they are between two and three. Cubs are known to commonly play-fight with other cubs which involves wrestling and chasing, along with baring their teeth and even biting one another but without causing harm. These games are critical for Polar Bear cubs to learn how to fight and therefore defend themselves successfully once they leave their mother and live on their own.  
Polar Bear Diet and Prey
The Polar Bear is the largest carnivorous mammal on land and must hunt regularly to ensure that it is well-fed and maintains it's insulating layer of fat to keep it warm. The skins and blubber of Ringed Seals make up the bulk of the Polar Bears' diet as they often leave the remaining meat which provides an important sources of food for other animals such as Arctic Foxes. Although Seals are their primary source of food, Polar Bears also eat birds, berries, fish and Reindeer (particularly during the trickier summer months) along with the occasional Walrus. The carcasses from large marine mammals including Seals, Walruses and even Whales also provide a regular food source for Polar Bears that are said to have such a good sense of smell, that they are able to sniff them out from a considerable distance away. Polar Bears are also known to break into underground Seal dens to hunt the pups inside them.  
Polar Bear Predators and Threats
Due to the fact that the Polar Bear is an enormous and ferocious predator, there are no animals that prey on them in their surrounding environment. They tend have the most trouble with other Polar Bears and females will protect their cubs fiercely from males that may be trying to harm them. Humans however, are by far the biggest threat to the dwindling Polar Bear population numbers as they have greedily hunted them from their arrival in the Arctic Ocean in the 1600s until the mid 1970s when international hunting bans fell into place. Along with the receding ice fields that are crucial to the survival of the Polar Bear caused by climate change, they are also heavily affected by drilling for oil and gas, increased shipping activity and rising levels of industrial chemicals that pollute the water. The Polar Bear has a relatively slow rate of reproduction which means that populations are not only shrinking rapidly but they are not growing quickly enough to sustain themselves. Some experts claim that the Polar Bear could be extinct from the wild in the next 30 years.  
Polar Bear Interesting Facts and Features
Before the harsh winter conditions have fully arrived, female Polar Bears dig themselves a den in the snow where they hibernate through these hostile months (and where they give birth to their cubs) and only emerge in the spring. These dens are known to be up to forty degrees warmer than the outside but males seem to prefer to be active all year round. Polar Bears have a layer of blubber under their skin which can be up to 4 inches thick and helps to keep them warm. They are in fact so well insulated, that Polar Bears must move slowly for the majority of the time so that they don't overheat. Polar Bears shed their fur in the summer meaning that they seem at their whitest at the beginning of autumn. By the spring however, their coats appear to be more yellow in colour which is something thought to be partially due to the oils found in Seal skins.  
Polar Bear Relationship with Humans
Before the 1600s when the European, Russian and American hunters arrived in the heart of the Arctic Circle, only native people really knew anything about them. Polar Bears were mercilessly hunted until 1973 when an international agreement put an end to such uncontrolled hunting. Even today native people are still allowed to hunt the Polar Bear for traditional uses but the biggest threat to Polar Bears is the rapidly melting ice shelf. Global warming caused by people is thought to be reducing it so quickly in fact, that some say that their southern limit of Hudson Bay will have no ice at all by 2080. Polar Bears are known to be aggressive towards Humans with reported attacks still occurring including the most recent and famous incident in Svalbard, when a number of teenagers and their expedition leaders were attacked by a Polar Bear in their camp.   
Polar Bear Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Polar Bear has been listed on the IUCN Red List as a species that is Vulnerable in it's natural environment. Although international hunting bans have prevented such a high level of hunting, conservation efforts within the Arctic Circle prove to be hard with the one thing that the Polar Bear actually needs to survive disappearing more every year. Increased levels of industrial activity in their natural environment also causes declines in the quality of their remaining habitats. There are estimated to be between 20,000 - 25,000 Polar Bears left roaming close to the North Pole, with the majority of these found in northern Canada.
		 	      

	      The puffer fish (also known as the blowfish and the toadfish) is a medium-sized species of fish that inhabits warmer, coastal waters around the world. The puffer fish is most well known for it's unique and distinctive adaptations that the puffer fish has to defend itself.  

There are around 120 known species of puffer fish, the second most poisonous creature on the planet after the Golden Poison Frog. The puffer fish is found in tropical waters worldwide, but they rarely go into the cooler waters.  

The puffer fish has the remarkable ability to expand its body extremely quickly when faced with danger, unavailing it's long poisonous spikes that cover its body. If a fisherman catches a puffer fish, they will never touch the spikes as they are highly toxic to humans and animals.  

The puffer fish can grow to up to 60cm in length but the exact length of the puffer fish depends on the species of puffer fish. Puffer fish can be found in a variety of colours but can sometimes be hard to identify when they are not inflated. The puffer fish normally has the appearance of a large tadpole, with bulging eyes and an elongated snout.  

Puffer fish are omnivorous animals and eat a variety and plants and animals. Puffer fish mainly feed on the algae that grows on the rocks and coral and also the invertebrates that inhabit these areas. Large species of puffer fish will also eat shellfish such as shrimp and crabs and molluscs.  

Although there are a number of animals that prey on the puffer fish, these predators often meet with a nasty end. When the puffer fish is threatened it inflates it's body with air exposing the long, sharp, toxic spikes which normally intimidates the predator into retreating. If however, an animal does manage to eat the puffer fish, it will often be poisoned by the toxins in the spikes or the toxin that is released from the organs of the puffer fish when it dies.  

Despite the toxins in the puffer fish, some animals such as sharks are able to eat the puffer fish without becoming harmed. It is important also to know that not all species of puffer fish are actually poisonous and these species are preyed upon by larger fish, sharks and also humans.  

The smallest species of puffer fish in the world is the dwarf puffer fish (also known as the pea puffer fish and the pygmy puffer fish). The dwarf puffer fish is tiny growing to just an inch in length, which is a few centimetres. Despite the fact that the dwarf puffer fish is related to larger species of puffer fish, the dwarf puffer fish is not found in the sea but in just one river in India.  

Not only does the puffer fish have unique defensive methods but they also have unique breeding methods. The male puffer fish guides the female puffer fish towards the shore where she releases between 3 and 7 eggs. The eggs of the puffer fish are extremely light and float on the surface of the water until they hatch in about a week's time. The puffer fish fry are still not fully developed and have a hard shell that protects them until their limbs begin to grow. The shell of the baby puffer fish then cracks off and the tail and fins develop. When the puffer fish is big enough, it will swim down and integrate itself into the reef community below.  

Despite the puffer fish having such a deadly venom, there are some species of puffer fish whose meat is eaten in Japan and Korea as a local delicacy.  Special chefs are trained to cut the fish so that the fish does not poison the consumer. Other species of puffer fish produce and release a toxin into their organs when they die to harm the thing that ate them.		 	      

	      The pike is a large species of freshwater fish, natively found in North America and across Eurasia. There are five recognised species of this large predatory fish which are the American pickerels, the Northern Pike, the Muskellunge, the Chain Pickerel and the Amur pike. Pikes are also one of the world's oldest fish, thought to have been found on earth for the past 65 million years.  

Pike are most commonly found in large bodies of deep, slow-moving water such as lakes, rivers and occasionally in large streams. Pike inhabit areas where there is plenty of cover from the reeds, where they are able to lurk until dinner swims past. Pike are found in North America, Canada, across Europe and into parts of western Asia.   

Pike are generally quite large in size, but it is the female pike that often become the largest predators within their environment. Pikes can range in size from just half a meter, to 1.8m in length depending on the species and the area which it inhabits. The grey-green scales of the pike give it perfect camouflage when it is hiding amongst the reeds.  

The pike is one of the most easily recognised fish in the world, mainly due to their elongated body shape and sharply pointed head. The teeth of the pike are one of it's most characteristic features as they are pointed and very sharp, to make catching prey more efficient.  

Although young pike may have the odd nibble on plants. pike generally have a purely carnivorous diet. Adult pike primarily feed on smaller fish in the water that the pike is able to ambush from it's hiding place amongst the aquatic weeds. Pike also hunt a number of other animals in the water including amphibians like frogs and toads and invertebrates such as snails and spiders.  

Due to their large size and naturally aggressive nature, the pike tends to be the most dominant predator within it's environment and adult pike therefore have very few predators in the wild. Smaller pike however are preyed upon by mainly land-dwelling animals from foxes to large birds of prey.  

As a rule of thumb, the heavier the pike, the more likely it is that the fish is a female as male pike rarely attains weights of 10 pounds or more. A large female pike can lay up 200,000 eggs at once although this number is often much lower, but is entirely dependent on the size of the fish. Female pike usually spawn in the spring when the weather begins to warm, meaning that the pike fry (babies) have the longest time possible to develop before the cold winter sets in.  

Today, although still common across much of it's native range, pike populations are being affected on both the North American and European continents mainly due to over-fishing and chemical pollutants in the water.
		 	      

	      The Steller's sea cow was a large marine mammal that was found in abundance in the North Pacific. These enormous animals were closely related to the dugong and the manatee still found grazing in the oceans today, but were of considerable size at between eight and nine meters in length.  

The Steller's sea cow was first discovered in 1741 by explorers that ventured into parts of the Arctic Circle. When they were first recorded, the Steller's sea cow was said to be living in abundance in the North Pacific, however in less than 20 years of human contact, the Steller's sea cow had disappeared from the ocean completely.  

Steller's sea cows were large herbivores that had a seal-like appearance with a tail which resembled that of a whale. The Steller's sea cow was named after George Steller who discovered the animal and who described it: "The animal never comes out on shore, but always lives in the water. Its skin is black and thick, like the bark of an old oak, its head in proportion to the body is small, it has no teeth, but only two flat white bones one above, the other below".  

The Steller's sea cow was said to be a tame animal that spend most of it's time concerning itself with munching on kelp, which is possibly what made it so vulnerable later on. However, the Steller's sea cow was also said to be unable to submerge it's enormous body fully underwater making it an easy spot for human hunters.  

The Steller's sea cow was a herbivorous animal that would have had a very similar diet to the dugong and manatees still extant today. This toothless animal would have spent the majority of its time grazing on kelp, sea weed and other aquatic grasses that grow in the shallows of the oceans.  

Before being discovered by humans, the Steller's sea cow would have had very few predators within it's watery world. Large shark species would have been the only predators able to tackle such an enormous meal, but non were more successful at hunting this enormous sea cow than humans who wiped out the entire species in just 17 years.  

The Steller's sea cow would have mated and given birth to it's calf in the water (as these marine mammals do not go onto the land). In much the same way as it's smaller cousins, the female Steller's sea cow would have given birth to a single calf after a gestation period that probably lasted well over a year. The sea cow calf would of remained with it's mother until it was strong enough to become independent.  

Sadly, these remarkable giants of the sea, where wiped out by human hunters almost instantly after having been discovered by explorers. Today, it's smaller cousins are also under serious threat in their native habitats from over-hunting and increasing levels of pollution in the water.

		 	      

	      The pig was allegedly domesticated as early as 9,000 BC from the wild boar, which is found in the forests of Asia and Europe. The pig was used for meat, leather and the pig hair was often used to make brushes.  

The domestic pig is farmed by the million around the world and produces a surprising amount of meat, with bacon, sausages, ham and chops all coming from the same animal (much to the disbelief of Homer Simpson)!  

The domestic pig is often kept as a pet in homes with large gardens as well as on farms. The pig is a quiet and relatively clean animal when kept in the right conditions.   

Pigs are known to be even-toes ungulates which is a term that refers to a hoofed animal whose weight is spread evenly by more than one toe. Pigs are also known as hogs and swine.  

Many species of pig have tusks although today this is not really the case as selective breeding has ensured that many species of domestic pig no longer do. Those species of pig that have their tusks, use them to dig up roots in the ground and sometimes for depending themselves against predators.  

A pig has a snout for a nose, small eyes, and a small tail, which may be curly, kinked, or straight. It has a thick body, short legs, and coarse hair. There are four toes on each foot, with the two large middle toes used by the pig for walking.   

Pigs are omnivores meaning that they eat both plants and animals. Pigs are scavengers by nature and will eat nearly anything that they come across from plants and fruit to dead insects and tree bark. In the wild, pigs tend to look for berries and shoots as these contain lots of nutrients and are important for a healthy pig.  

 Pig Foot Facts 

Pigs have four feet that are known as trotters that are eaten as a delicacy in some parts of the world.
The pig has four toes on each foot that are pointed downwards as the pig walks on the tips of its toes rather than its whole foot.
Despite the fact that the pig has four toes, it only actually walks on two of its toes as the outer toes as used for balance and will rarely touch the ground.
The four toes of the pig end in hooves to enable the pig to have tougher feet when walking or running on harder ground.
The middle two toes of the pig that it walks on are often slightly webbed to give the pig more balance and stability when running and walking on muddy ground.

  
 Pig Teeth Facts 

Some species of pig, such as wild pigs, have tusks and large front teeth that the pig uses for defending itself and for digging roots out of the ground.
Baby pigs have 28 teeth which fall out when the piglet is around 12 months old and are replaced with the stronger 44 teeth that adult pigs have.
All pigs have tusk teeth which are their sharper canine teeth and the pigs use these teeth for digging but must grind them down on harder objects so that they do not get too long.
Much like human teeth, the teeth of the pig have an enamel coating which makes the teeth of the pig stronger and less exposed to disease.
Pigs are one of the few wild animals that properly chew their food as pigs have a digestive system that is similar to that of the human and therefore cannot digest un-chewed food easily.

		 	      

	       Pointers are very high energy dogs and constantly think about hunting and tracking. They are also extremely sweet, love to cuddle, play with other pets, and enjoy the company of other humans.  

 They are a very independent, loyal, and responsive breed--they respond well to scolding and are extremely intelligent.		 	      

	      The red-handed tamarin (also known as the Golden-handed Tamarin and the Midas Tamarin) is a New World monkey named for the reddish hair on it's hands and feet. The red-handed tamarin is native to the moist woodland areas along the Amazon river in South America.  

The red-handed tamarin is found inhabiting the forest alongside the Amazon throughout Brazil, Guyana, French Guiana, Suriname, and Venezuela. Although once quite large, the natural territory of the red-handed tamarin has rapidly decreased today due to deforestation.  

The red-handed tamarin is an exceptional climber and spends most of it's time among the vines and branches of the trees. Red-handed tamarins are quick and agile and are superb jumpers known to jump distances of over 60 feet (18 m) from a tree to the ground when needed.  

The red-handed tamarin is a diurnal primate which means that the red-handed tamarin is most active during the day and rests in the safety of the tree tops during the night. Red-handed tamarins are very sociable animals and inhabit their territory with their rest of the red-handed tamarin troop which generally have between 4 and 16 members. Red-handed tamarin troops are led by the eldest female and have predominantly male members.  

The red-handed tamarin is an omnivorous animal meaning that the red-handed tamarin hunts both plants and other animals in order to survive. Fruits, insects and green plants make up the majority of the red-handed tamarin's diet along with small rodents and reptiles, eggs and tree sap.  

Due to the relatively small size of the red-handed tamarin, it has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Wild cats, dogs, snakes and birds of prey are primary predators of the red-handed tamarin, along with humans who are destroying their natural habitat.  

The red-handed tamarin usually breeds between the months of April and July, when the female red-handed tamarin will give birth to twins (or a single infant) after a four to five month gestation period. The male red-handed tamarin's carry and groom infants more than the females do, but females clean the infant more than the males do. Older siblings are also known to contribute to infant care, although infants prefer to be carried by their parents than by their siblings. Infant red-handed tamarins become mobile at 2 to 5 weeks, and begin eating solid food at 4 to 7 weeks. They are independent at 10 to 18 weeks and are fully weaned at 15 to 25 weeks. Sexual maturity is attained at about 2 years of age.  

Today, the red-handed tamarin is not considered to be an animal that is in danger of extinction although the population of wild red-handed tamarins in the rainforests of South America has been declining in recent years primarily due to habitat loss caused by deforestation. 
		 	      

	      The platypus, specifically the Duck-Billed Platypus, is indigenous to eastern Australia and Tasmania, with the platypus being one of the only mammals that lays eggs (the only other mammal that does lay eggs is the echidna) as mammals generally give birth to live young.  

The platypus is known to have extremely weird characteristics such as egg-laying, otter-footed, duck-billed and beaver-tailed. The platypus also has webbed feet similar to an aquatic bird like a duck so it is no wonder than when the first European encountered the platypus, no-one would believe them about the animal they had seen.  

The male platypus has a venomous spike on their back foot which contains enough poison that could cause severe pains to a human. This venomous spike is vital in the self defense of the platypus and it is believed that the venom amount increases during the breeding season, so it is also used to exert dominance. The male platypus is normally bigger than the female platypus, with the female platypus weighing an average of 1,200g.   

Platypus spend most of their time in the water, eating fish but the platypus does come onto land quite often. Platypus are one of the only mammals to locate their prey using electroreception, which means that the platypus often detects prey by the electric fields that the prey produces.  

The platypus is a semi-aquatic animal and can be found inhabiting streams and rivers in the colder highlands of Australia and Tasmania, as well as tropical rainforests. The platypus is prey to many predators including foxes and snakes and there are known to be only small numbers of platypus found in the North of Australia, possibly due to the number of crocodiles that inhabit the area.  

The breeding season of the platypus is between the winter months (the Australian winter that is) if June and October. The female makes her burrow deeper and fills it with wet leaves to provide bedding. The female platypus lays an average of two, leathery eggs which hatch in about a month. The platypus babies are born blind and hairless and therefore extremely vulnerable.   

When it is not the mating season, the platypus lives in burrows that are about 30 cm deep, and they spend about 12 hours a day hunting in the water. The platypus species is under threat as the platypus is very susceptible to dirty water, and increased levels of pollution do not help them at all.		 	      

	      The pool frog (also known as the northern pool frog) is a species of medium-sized frog natively found in parts of northern Europe. The pool frog is the rarest amphibian in England and actually is thought to have been extinct in native environment during the 1990s, but re-introduction programmes are now under-way.  

The northern pool frog is naturally found in Sweden, Norway and on Britain's south-east coast where it inhabits natural ponds found in forested or heathland areas. Much of the pool frog's native habitat has now been bulldozed to create housing estates which led to the sharp decline and extinction of this species on the British Isles.   

The pool frog is a medium sized frog that is generally brown or brownish-green in colour with a splattering of dark spots across it's skin. Pool frogs are also easily identified by their sharply pointed heads and by the two, lightly coloured stripes that run down either side of the pool frog's back.  

Frogs are well known for their webbed feet, and the pool frog is no exception. Pool frogs have webbing (flaps of skin) between their toes which not only assists the pool frog when swimming about in the water but also gives these rare amphibians more grip when climbing about on the slippery banks of the pond.  

Like other frog species, pool frogs are carnivorous animals, surviving on a diet that consists only of other animals. Pool frogs eat a wide variety of invertebrates including insects, worms and spiders which they catch using their long sticky tongue, after having watching their dinner patiently for some time.  

Due to their large size and semi-aquatic lifestyle, there are numerous different animals which prey on pool frogs in their natural environment. Birds and small mammals are the most common predators of the pool frog, along with foxes, cats, dogs and even larger birds of prey.  

Female pool frogs spawn (lay hundreds of eggs) in the warmer spring months, which float on the surface of the water in a sticky clump. When they hatch, the pool frog tadpoles drop into the water where they continue to develop, eventually losing their tails and growing legs enabling them to hop in and out of the water.  

Today, the pool frog is one of the rarest animals in the UK with the last remaining natural population thought to have disappeared from East Anglia in 1995. Extensive re-introduction programmes are under-way in undisclosed locations across the country to try and bring back one of our rarest predators. 
		 	      

	       The sea slug is also commonly referred to as a sea cucumber, mainly because of the of the sea slug's shape and the fact that it is normally found on coral or rocks usually being very still, making it look like a type of aquatic vegetable.  

The sea slug is a herbivorous animals and feeds on plankton and decaying matter on the ocean floor, along with grazing on the rocks and coral reefs for algae. By munching on the decomposing plant matter on the ocean floor, the sea slug is of great benefit to every marine environment where the sea inhabits.  

Due to their motionless nature, sea slugs are often very exposed and are therefore popular prey for a wide variety of predatory animals in the oceans. Crabs, lobsters, fish and even humans are among the animals that prey on the fleshy sea slug.  

Some species of sea slug are able to protect themselves from danger by wrapping their tentacles around potential predators, so that the predator is unable to harm them. This only applies however to the species of sea slug that actually have tentacles, others are completely defenceless.    

The sea slug is often an interesting addition to a salt-water aquarium and can be useful in keeping the algae levels at a minimum. Although the sea slug leads a relatively motionless existence, they are an important factor in any marine environment.  

There are known to be thousands of different sea slug species found around the world and it is estimated that there are many more species of sea slug that have not yet been discovered. Sea slugs can range in size from just a few millimetres to more than 30 centimetres in length and can be found in a variety of colours and shapes.  

The sea slug is a hermaphrodite, meaning that the sea slug has both male and female reproductive organs. Sea slugs release eggs into the water in ribbon-like sticky clusters which can contain thousands of eggs but usually much less. The eggs are fertilized and the sea slug larvae (the baby sea slugs) soon develop and become bigger, after hatching from their sticky eggs.  

Sea slugs are not only harvested for food by humans but are also used  in traditional medicines particularly in the far east as the extracts from the sea cucumbers are said to have healing properties. 		 	      

	      The starfish (commonly as a sea star) is generally  found with 5 arms that are attached to a central disc. This central disc is the activity center of the starfish and also contains the mouth of the starfish.   

The starfish feeds on oysters and clams, the 2 stomachs of the starfish helping with the digestion of complex organisms. The starfish uses one stomach to begin the digestion of the food, and the other stomach to expand outwards and engulf their prey. Starfish can be found in the oceans all around the world.  

Due to the slow moving nature of the starfish, the starfish is preyed upon by many animal predators including fish, crabs, rays, sharks, humans and birds when the starfish are washed onto the shore.  

The starfish has the incredible ability to regenerate itself into a new starfish, with a single lost arm attached to a portion of the central starfish body disc!  

Starfish do not rely on a jointed, movable skeleton for support and movement (although starfish are still protected by their skeleton), but instead possess a hydraulic water vascular system that aids the starfish in movement.  

The water vascular system of the starfish has many projections called tube feet on the ventral face of the starfish's arms which function in movement and aid with feeding.  

Starfish can change their gender when it is convenient to them. The female starfish is capable is releasing over 2 million eggs at any one time, although the average amount of eggs that the female starfish releases is closer to 1 million. The eggs released by the female starfish are then fertilized by the male starfish and the fertilized eggs develop into larvae which are able to swim about. Starfish larvae swim for about three weeks before settling and beginning metamorphosis into the more common appearance of the starfish.   

The starfish is today considered to be a threatened species of animal mainly due to habitat loss and pollution which are drastically reducing the starfish populations.		 	      

	      Pygmy Hippopotamus Classification and Evolution
The Pygmy Hippopotamus is a medium-sized herbivorous mammal that is found inhabiting the humid forests and swamps of West Africa. The Pygmy Hippopotamus is closely related to Africa's other Hippopotamus species, which is the Common Hippopotamus but is much smaller in size weighing around a fifth of it's enormous cousin's weight. Although the two species may look very similar there are actually a number of notable differences as the Pygmy Hippopotamus has a narrower mouth and sleeker body that helps it when moving quickly through the dense vegetation in the jungle. They also spend much less time in the water compared to the Common Hippopotamus and even rest in burrows in the vegetation on river banks. Unlike it's larger cousin though, the Pygmy Hippopotamus is a very rare animal that is severely threatened in it's remaining habitats by both hunting and habitat loss which appears to be hard to control in such an unregulated region.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Anatomy and Appearance
The Pygmy Hippopotamus has a long barrel-shaped body that is covered in slate-grey skin, which lightens towards the underside. The head of the Pygmy Hippopotamus is small in relation to it's body size and along with it's narrower mouth, makes it easier for them to run through the forest at speed. Due to the fact that the Pygmy Hippopotamus has evolved to being more land-dwelling than the larger Common Hippopotamus, they have a number of adaptations that aid them when in the dense forest. Although the Pygmy Hippopotamus is still semi-aquatic and will enter the water, they have fewer webbed toes than their cousin to help them move more effectively on land, and their eyes are also found on the sides of their head rather than on the top which again helps them to see more around them when they are amongst the trees. The Pygmy Hippopotamus also has long canines called tusks and although they are no-way near as impressive as those found in the mouth of the Common Hippopotamus, they are still used for intimidating rivals and intruders.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Distribution and Habitat
Although the Pygmy Hippopotamus would have once been found throughout more of it's current range, evidence suggests that the species has always been fairly rare. Pygmy Hippopotamuses are found in Liberia and Cote d'Ivoire in western Africa, along with there also being a few small and isolated populations in neighbouring Sierra Leone and Guinea. The Pygmy Hippopotamus inhabits areas of dense, lowland tropical forest and swampland, where it spends the majority of it's time foraging for food and resting on land. Despite the fact that Pygmy Hippopotamus populations have never been too numerous, their numbers have declined drastically particularity over recent years due to both hunting and habitat loss. The natural tropical forests that the Pygmy Hippopotamus inhabits are also home to rare and sought-after tropical timbers, with these areas therefore being subjected to high levels of illegal logging.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Behaviour and Lifestyle
Unlike the larger and more sociable Common Hippopotamus, the Pygmy Hippopotamus does not live in herds and is in fact, largely solitary. Spending the hot days resting in the cool mud or in the burrow of another animal (such as an Otter) that it has enlarged, the Pygmy Hippopotamus spends comparatively little of it's time in water and tends to use it more as a refuge if it feels threatened. The Pygmy Hippopotamus is nocturnal and forages in the forest at night for a wide variety of plant matter and fallen fruits. Like their larger cousin, the Pygmy Hippopotamus follows well-trodden and marked paths between it's feeding and resting grounds and can dart through these tunnels at a remarkable pace if it feels in danger. Although Pygmy Hippopotamuses roam individual home ranges it is not uncommon for them to overlap those of others, and they are even known to tolerate the presence of other individuals in their territory.    
Pygmy Hippopotamus Reproduction and Life Cycles
During the breeding season is one of the main times when male Pygmy Hippopotamuses become more aggressive and will bare their teeth and even fight with one another to earn the right to mate with the local females. After a gestation period that lasts for between six and seven months, the female Pygmy Hippopotamus gives birth to a single calf either in a den in the dense vegetation or in the water. Pygmy Hippopotamus calves weigh just under 6kg at birth and are fully weaned by the time they are eight months old, after which they begin to accompany their mother on foraging trips in the forest. Pygmy Hippopotamuses are relatively long-living animals that often reach older ages than the average Common Hippopotamus, particularity when kept in captivity.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Diet and Prey
The Pygmy Hippopotamus is a herbivorous animal which means that it only forages for and consumes different types of plant matter in order to acquire all of the nutrients that it needs to survive. Unlike the Common Hippopotamus that primarily (and almost only) feeds on grasses, the Pygmy Hippopotamus has a much more varied diet and consumes a wide range a plants and plant material throughout the forest. The Pygmy Hippopotamus forages under the cover of night eating grasses, ferns, leaves, shrubs and fruits that have fallen onto the forest floor from the branches above. The Pygmy Hippopotamus uses special tunnel through the dense jungle to move about most safely between it's resting and feeding grounds, ensuring that it can always have a good route of escape if danger approaches.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Predators and Threats
Due to the relatively large size of the Pygmy Hippopotamus it has few natural predators within it's native forest habitats with the exception of occasionally being stalked by a Leopard. The smaller and more vulnerable calves however, are preyed up by a number of jungle predators including other Wildcats and large Snakes such as Pythons, that are able easily ambush the unprotected young calf whilst it's mother is out foraging. The biggest threat to the remaining Pygmy Hippopotamus populations however is people, that have hunted them for their meat and have destroyed vast areas of their unique forest habitats. The often illegal deforestation of much of Africa's tropical rainforest is to provide rare, exotic woods for the timber industry and to clear land to make way for farming and agriculture.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Interesting Facts and Features
Due to the way that the skin of the Pygmy Hippopotamus is made up, the animal cannot sweat so when it comes into contact with air their skin easily dries up. Although this is not a problem in the water, to combat this the rest of the time a pink, oily substance is secreted through glands in the skin which is not only thought to prevent sunburn but also may have anti-bacterial properties that helps to keep wounds clean and prevent infection from the dirty water. The Pygmy Hippopotamus has slightly webbed feet, which help it when it is walking on muddy river bottoms and up slippery banks. Their webbed feet however do not prove to be a disadvantage on land, as the Pygmy Hippopotamus is capable of dashing through the well-marked tunnels in the vegetation at speeds of up to 30kph. Despite their appearance, both species of Hippopotamus are actually thought to be more closely related to Whales than they are to other even-toed mammals.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Relationship with Humans
The Pygmy Hippopotamus has fascinated people since the ancient Egyptian times but they have also been exploited by them. Although now legally protected, this rare and elusive animal is hunted for both it's teeth and it's meat, which despite not being closely related, is said to taste like pork. People however, have also had devastating affects on Pygmy Hippopotamus populations throughout much of their natural range with deforestation of their native habitats pushing these animals into ever smaller and more isolated regions. Logging for the timber industry and land clearance for agriculture is illegal in many parts of their natural range but is sadly too much of an area to patrol effectively so the practice continues still, with Pygmy Hippopotamuses also then being poached in the process.  
Pygmy Hippopotamus Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Pygmy Hippopotamus is listed by the IUCN as an animal species that is Endangered in it's natural environment and is severely at risk from extinct in the near future. The sub-species of Pygmy Hippopotamus found in Niger is rarer still and listed by the Red List as being Critically Endangered, although many believe that it may sadly now be extinct. There are less than 3,000 Pygmy Hippopotamus individuals estimated to be left foraging in the hot, wet forests of western Africa today and numbers seem be declining still due to illegal hunting and habitat loss.

		 	      

	      The pelican is a large bird that is most well known for the pouch that the pelican has in it's beak which the pelican uses to scoop fish out if the water. The pelican is found in the countryside worldwide, dwelling near water and densely populated fishing areas.  

The brown sea pelican is one of the largest species of pelican and with male pelicans often leaving the flock to hunt alone at sea. The brown pelican is particularly remarkable for the it's ability to swoop down to the ocean surface from enormous heights to catch fish.  

The pelican is generally an enormous bird with some species gaining a wingspan of well over 3meters. Other species of pelican are much smaller but these smaller species of pelican tend to live on land rather than spending their lives at sea.  

There are eight different species of pelican found on every continent in the world with the exception of the Antarctic. Pelicans tend to prefer the more temperate and warmer climates to the colder ones, and pelicans are therefore most commonly found closer to the Equator.  

Despite the fact that pelicans are omnivorous birds, pelicans mainly feed on fish, crustaceans such as prawns and crabs, small species of turtle and squid. The pelican uses it's beak pouch to scoop a mouth-full of water up and then strains the water out of it's beak leaving the food (such as fish) behind for the pelican to eat.  

During the breeding season, pelicans nest in colonies and breeding usually begins with a group of male pelicans chasing a single female pelican. The pelican courtship can occur on land, in the air or on water. The male pelican collects materials to build the nest which the female pelican then uses to build the nest either on the ground or in a tree depending on the pelican species.  

The female pelican lays an average clutch size of 2 eggs which both the female pelican and the male pelican help to incubate. After an incubation period of around a month, the pelican chicks hatch out of their eggs but often, only one pelican chick will survive out of the two. The female pelican feeds her young until they are around 3 months old, although baby pelicans are usually able to walk and swim when they are about 2 months old.  

Due to their generally large size, pelicans have few predators in their natural environment. Wild dogs such as coyotes are one of the main predators of the pelican along with cats and humans who hunt the pelican for their meat and feathers.  

Pelicans inhabit areas around the world usually in large flocks of more than 100 birds. Pelicans rest and nest together in these communities but often hunt and feed alone with the exception of the female pelican feeding her pelican chicks. The pelican chicks are known to gather together in small groups within the communial nesting site of their parents.		 	      

	      The peacock (also known as peafowl) is a medium sized bird most closely related to the pheasant. Unlike it's common pheasant cousin that inhabits areas of the Northern Hemisphere, the peacock is found in warmer climate of the Southern Hemisphere, with the peacock being most commonly found in India.  

There are three main types of peacock, the African Congo peacock, the Indian peacock and the Green peacock all of which are thought to have originated in Asia but are today found in Africa and parts of Australia. All of the three different species of peacock are knwon for their elaborate male peacocks and dull, brown female peacocks (in comparison to the males).  

The male peacock is most well known for it's enormous tail feathers that fan out behind the peacock and can be nearly two meters in length. This colourful display of the peacock is thought to be used for both mating and defence purposes. The male peacock attracts a female to mate with by showing off his array of elaborate feathers, and when the male peacock feels threatened, he will fan his tail out in order to make himself look bigger and therefore try to intimidate approaching predators.  

The peacock is an omnivorous bird and feeds on insects, plants, seeds, and flower heads. Peacocks have also been known to munch on small mammals and reptiles in order to supplement their diet, which ensures that they are getting the right nutrients. Peacocks have a number of natural predators in the wild that include wild dogs and cats, medium sized mammals such as raccoons and even tigers have been known to hunt peacocks.  

Peacocks commonly get to about 20 years old, although some peacock individuals have been known to get to older ages particularly those peacock individuals that are in captivity. Generally, the peacock populations are not under great threat although the green peacock, is listed as being vulnerable to extinction mainly due to hunting and habitat loss.  

Male peacocks are known as peacocks and female peacocks are known as peahens (in a similar way to chickens and pheasants). The male is peacock is generally about twice the size of the female peahen, and even larger when the male peacock is displaying his plumage (feathers). When the male peacock does not have his brightly coloured and very elaborate tail feathers on display, they drag behind him. This is known as a tail or a train.  

During the mating season, the male peacock may mate with up to six different female peahens. The female peahen lays between 4 and 8 brown coloured eggs. The female peahen incubates her eggs by sitting on them, and the peacock chicks hatch after an incubation period of about a month. The female peacock, looks after and rears her peacock chicks on her own without any help from the male peacock.  

Peacocks are most commonly found in deserts and dry savanna areas. Peacocks are also found in forests and dense foliage particularly during the breeding season when the female peacocks are trying to incubate their eggs and rear their chicks without any unwelcome predators spotting them.
		 	      

	      Prawns are crustaceans similar in appearance to shrimps, but they can be distinguished by the gill structure which is branching in prawns and not in shrimp. The prawn is also related to the crab and the lobster.  

Prawns are found in calmer waters were the prawns can nest in the water plants to lay their eggs. Like the shrimp, the prawn does tend to prefer the warmer waters in the tropics but some species of prawn are found in the Northern Hemisphere.  

The prawn feeds by filtering nutritious particles out of the water flowing around the prawn, and the prawn is therefore often found on rocks or close to the sea floor.  

Prawns are a common source of food for humans around the world, particularly in areas where the prawn exists naturally such as south east Asia.  		 	      

	      The pond skater is a delicate water-based insect commonly found on still bodies of water across the Northern Hemisphere. There are around 500 different species of pond skater that are known by a variety of different names including water striders, water bugs, magic bugs, skaters, skimmers, water scooters, water skaters, water skeeters, water skimmers, water skippers and Jesus bugs.  

The pond skater is most commonly found across Europe where they live on the surface of ponds, slow streams, marshes, and other quiet waters, in all parts of the continent. Pond skaters are most well known for their ability to "walk on water", where pond skaters use surface tension to delicately walk on the surface of the water.  

Pond skaters float on the surface of the water sensing vibrations and ripples in the water with sensitive hairs on their legs and bodies. If an insect accidentally falls into the water, the ripples it makes will tell the pond skater exactly where it is and the pond skater will dart across the surface of the pond to catch it's prey.  

The long legs of the pond skater mean that they are very agile on the surface of the water and can jump to evade a predator or to catch an insect. Pond skaters however, do not spend all their time on the water as they will fly far from water to hibernate through the winter and then re-emerge from hibernation in the warmer spring.   

The pond skater is a carnivorous insect that feeds only on other invertebrates in order to survive. Despite their thin and floaty appearance, the pond skater is actually a pretty aggressive predator, pouncing on insects that land on the water's surface. Insect larvae are the other main food source for the pond skater.  

Due to it's small size and prominent appearance on the water's still surface, the pond skater is easily spotted by other pond-life. Fish and newts in the water along with birds, frogs and toads on the surface are the main predators of the pond skater.   

Pond skaters are known to mate on the surface of the water in the warming months of spring and early summer, before the female pond skater returns to the water's edge to lay her eggs on a leaf where they will be safer from predators. When hatched, the pond skater nymph drop into the water where they continue to develop, before emerging on the surface as water-walking adults.  

Although, a common sight on garden ponds throughout Europe, pond skaters in less cultivated areas are being increasingly affected by the rising levels of pollution in the natural freshwater sources.
		 	      

	      The pied tamarin is a small species of monkey found in the rainforest of Brazil. The pied tamarin is an endangered species and is one of the larger species of tamarin found on the South American continent.  

The pied tamarin is found in only one restricted area in the Brazilian Amazon rainforest, where the pied tamarins are being protected from being hunted and poached in the forest or from being subjected to habitat loss in the form deforestation.  

The pied tamarin is a very distinctive species of tamarin as it has a white chest and back, brown, tan or red hind legs and tail and a black hairless face. The pied tamarin is a highly territorial animal and is known to make a variety of calls to warn off unwanted visitors.  

The pied tamarin is a diurnal primate which means that the pied tamarin is most active during the day and rests in the safety of the tree tops during the night. pied tamarins are very sociable animals and inhabit their territory with their rest of the pied tamarin troop which generally have between 3 and 15 members. Pied tamarin troops are led by the eldest female and have predominantly male members.  

The pied tamarin is an omnivorous animal meaning that the pied tamarin hunts both plants and other animals in order to survive. Fruits, insects and green plants make up the majority of the pied tamarin's diet along with small rodents and reptiles, eggs and tree sap.  

Due to the relatively small size of the pied tamarin, it has a number of predators within it's natural environment. Wild cats, dogs, snakes and birds of prey are primary predators of the pied tamarin, along with humans who are destroying their natural habitat.  

The pied tamarin usually breeds between the months of April and July, when the female pied tamarin will give birth to twins (or a single infant) after a four to five month gestation period. The male pied tamarin's carry and groom infants more than the females do, but females clean the infant more than the males do. Older siblings are also known to contribute to infant care, although infants prefer to be carried by their parents than by their siblings. Infant pied tamarins become mobile at 2 to 5 weeks, and begin eating solid food at 4 to 7 weeks. They are independent at 10 to 18 weeks and are fully weaned at 15 to 25 weeks. Sexual maturity is attained at about 2 years of age.  

Today, the pied tamarin population in the wild of South America has been declining in recent years primarily due to habitat loss caused by deforestation. The range of the pied tamarin is now restricted to just one part of the Brazilian rainforest where the pied tamarin inhabits a number of National parks and reserves. 
		 	      

	       The United Kennel Club states that  This breed has indomitable courage, high intelligence and tenacity. Coupled with its affection for its friends, and children in particular, its quietness and trustworthy stability make it an all-purpose dog. However, the organization cautions that their standards are only intended for those already familiar with the breed.  

The Staffordshire bull terrier is not a breed of dog recommended for first time owners or owners that cannot provide the dog with their undivided attention. Staffies are known for their loyalty to their family if trained well, but they can still cause harm to other animals or people due to their slightly erratic temperament.  		 	      

	      The purple emperor is a distinctive species of butterfly, found in woodlands across Europe. The purple emperor is most well known for the bright blue-purple markings of the wings of the male purple emperor butterflies.  

The purple emperor is most commonly found throughout central Europe and in the warmer, southern regions of the United Kingdom. The purple emperor is found inhabiting ancient forests and deciduous woodlands where the adult purple emperors spend most of their lives hidden high up in the trees.  

Despite the name, it is only the male purple emperor butterflies that are actually of a purple looking colour. The females purple emperors are much duller in appearance with a generally brown wingspan, a few white markings and a small orange circle on each of it's hind wings (the males are very similar only with the added purple sheen).  

Female purple emperors spend most of their lives in the tree canopy coming down only to lay their eggs. Male purple emperor butterflies also spend much of their time in the tree tops, defending their territory from rivals, though they will sometimes descend in order to drink from puddles or feed.  

Unlike most butterflies, the purple emperor does not feed from flowers but instead on the honeydew secreted by aphids and on dung, urine and animal carcasses, as well as the sap from oak trees.  

Eggs are laid by the female purple emperors in late summer on the upper side of leaves, which the purple emperor caterpillars hatch out of. The purple emperor caterpillars are green with white and yellow markings and have two large horns, and soon undergo the incredible transformation from young to caterpillar to adult butterfly.  

Today, purple emperor butterflies are threatened in their natural habitats from factors including chemical and noise pollution and even complete habitat destruction in the form of deforestation.
		 	      

	      The parrot is a medium sized group of birds, with the parrot being best known for it's extremely brightly coloured feathers, and the ability of some parrot species to talk, as these species of parrots are able to mimic sounds made by other animals such as humans.  

There are thought to be over 350 species of parrot worldwide, ranging across rainforest regions of the Southern Hemisphere. The parrot tends to inhabit densely forested areas, where the parrot hunts insects and small mammals, as well as eating nuts, seeds and fruits.  

The parrot can grow between 8cm and 1m, depending on the parrot species. The pygmy parrot is the smallest species of parrot in the world, growing to around the same size as an adult human's finger. The pygmy parrot is found in the jungles of Papua New Guinea. The Hyacinth Macaw is the largest species of parrot in the world, growing to more than a meter in height and native to the jungles of central and eastern South America. However, the endangered kakapo of New Zealand can often be heavier than the Hyacinth Macaw, with the kakapo often reaching more than 3kg in weight.  

The parrot is believed to be one of the most intelligent of all the bird species, mainly in the sense that parrots are able to replicate (mimic) the noises made around them. Some parrots are able to mimic modern sounds and human voices to almost perfection. One African grey parrot was found to have a vocabulary of more than 800 words!  

Nearly all of the different parrot species around the world are known to live for a long time, particularly in comparison to other species of bird (even other species of animal). The average lifespan of the parrot is around 60 years although it is not uncommon for parrots to be much older ages, as many parrot individuals have reached the age of 100.  

Parrots are identifiable by a number of their features, the brightly coloured feathers of the parrot being the most obvious one. Parrots are known to have sharp, curved beaks which help parrots to crack nuts open more easily and to access fruits on the trees. Parrots also have strong legs, but are most well known for the fact that there are four toes on each of the parrot's two feet, two of these toes face forwards and the other two toes face backwards. These remarkable feet help the parrot not only to perch on tree branches more easily but also aid the parrot in climbing tree trunks or clambering through the dense jungle foliage.  

Parrot populations are rapidly declining mainly due to deforestation and therefore destruction of the parrot's natural habitat. Parrots are also a popular animal in the exotic pet trade and are trapped in the wild to be delivered to homes around the world.   

Due to their large size (of the majority of parrot species) and intelligence, parrots have few natural predators in the wild. The human trapping and hunting parrots, is the main predator of the parrot along with monkeys, snakes and large birds of prey that tend to feed more on the eggs of the parrot rather than the bird itself.		 	      

	      The gar (also known as the garpike) is an elongated species of fish, generally found in freshwater habitats across North and Central America. Despite their similar appearance, the gar is not to be confused with the marine garfish or needlefish that is a common sight throughout the tropical reefs of south-east Asia.  

There are seven different species of gar found on the American continent where they can be found in fresh or brackish water habitats such as lakes and reservoirs, and in the larger slow-moving rivers. The gar is most commonly found in eastern parts of North America, Central America and also on a number of the Caribbean islands.  

The gar is a generally quite large species of fish, with some individuals able to reach lengths of 3 meters or more. Although not all gar species are quite so big, they are all generally large fish and therefore dominant predators within their environments.  

Gar are generally slow-moving fish and so must rely on the power and strength of their jaws in order to catch their prey. Gar have a long jaw which is filled with sharp, needle-like teeth and can often be seen together in small groups as they try to ambush their prey as one.  

The gar is a carnivorous and dominant predator within its environment feeding only on other animals in the water. Gar primarily hunt fish, insects and other invertebrates such as crabs along with eggs and other animals in the water.  

Due to its large size and aggressive temperament, the gar has few natural predators within its native environment. Larger animals including crocodiles, alligators, large fish species and humans are the main predators of the gar.  

Many gar spawn during the warmer spring months between April and June although they have been known to mate until the autumn weather appears in early October. After mating, the female gar lays an average on 10 sticky eggs on a nearby leaf or branch, where they remain until they hatch. As with many other fish species, the gar parents do not look after their young once they have hatched.  

Today, the gar is not considered to be a species that is under threat from extinction although gar populations have been decreasing in specific areas mainly due to over-hunting and pollution in the water.
		 	      

	      The Persian cat is one of the most common exotic cat breeds for people to keep as pets. The Persian cat is thought to originate from the Persian area of the Middle East, which is today's Iran. Most Persian cat breeding is in the United States  

The Persian cat makes a fantastic household pet as they are quiet and good-natured. One disadvantage of owning a Persian cat is they do need looking after, mainly as the Persian cat has long hair, this needs to be brushed regularly to stop it getting matted together.  

The Persian cat is a medium-sized stockily built cat with a rounded body and short limbs. The Persian cat often has a fairly wide face with large eyes and a muzzle of longer fur around it's nose and mouth.  

Due to its long silky fur, general appearance and calm temperament, the Persian cat is one of the most popular breeds of domestic cat in the world. Today, the Persian cat is among the most common domestic cat breeds in the United States.  

The Persian cat is an intelligent animal and enjoy human interaction and companionship. Persian cats are also one of the most long-living of all domestic cat breeds and are often said to be a seen as family member by their owners. 

		 	      

	      A stag beetle is one of more than 1,200 different species of beetle that are natively found in Europe. The stag beetle is the largest species of insect to be found in the United Kingdom, but despite this, the stag beetle is becoming rarer and rarer in much of Britain and is now a protected species in much of it's historic range.  

The stag beetle is primarily found inhabiting deciduous woodlands and forest across the European continent where there is an abundance of food and plenty of hiding places for this armoured insect. Stag beetle are also becoming a more common sight in parks and gardens that provide artificial replacements of their native habitats.  

The stag beetle is Britain's largest and most distinctive insect as some individuals can reach more than 10cm in length. The hard, armoured shell of the stag beetle provides it's body with immense protection and is split into three parts (as with other insects) to give the stag beetle greater agility when moving around.  

The most distinctive feature of the stag beetle is it's long antler-like pincers which protrude from the head of the stag beetle. The pincers of the male stag beetle are often considerably larger than those of the female are primarily used for holding onto prey. Stag beetles also have wings that are protected by their shell when not being used, allowing the stag beetle to fly away if it feels threatened.  

Stag beetles are omnivorous animals, but they eat a predominately vegetarian diet. Decaying wood, leaves, nectar, fruits and flowers are all stable foods in a stag beetle's diet along with smaller insects when other food sources are not as readily available.  

Despite their protective body armour, stag beetles are preyed up by a wide variety of animals throughout Europe. Bats, birds, rats and other rodents are the main predators of the stag beetle along with cats and dogs, and other larger mammals such as foxes.  

Stag beetles usually begin to breed when the warmer summer weather emerges, and once hatched, the stag beetle larvae remain in their infant form from a few months to a few years. The stag beetle larvae feed on rotting wood and change to nectars when they become adults. Once fully developed, adult stag beetles have a short lifespan only getting to a few months older.  

Today, primarily thanks to habitat loss, the stag beetle is one of the world's threatened species and is therefore protected throughout it's natural range but particularly in the UK where the stag beetle is becoming rarer and rarer.
		 	      

	      The stingray is a flat marine fish found in warmer waters around the globe. The stingray is belongs to the same group of fish as other ray and are also believed to be closely related to sharks.  

The stingray inhabits the warmer tropical waters around the world generally in the slightly deeper waters rather than the shallows. When the weather begins to cool, the stingray will retreat further into the depths of the ocean.  

The stingray is most well known for the stinger that is present on the end of tail of the stingray. The stingray uses the stinger on the end of it's long tail pierce through and stop it's prey before it can escape.  

The stingray's stinger is razor-sharp, barbed or serrated and attached to the stingray's thin tail. This means the stingray can whip it's stinger to pretty much anywhere, extremely quickly as the long, thin tail of the stingray is extremely agile and very flexible.  

The size of a sting really is dependent on what species of stingray it is. Some species of stingray in the deep ocean get up to 14ft long including the tail and these species of stingray naturally have a larger stinger. The smaller stingray species tend to have small stingers, so that the stinger is relevant to the size of the body of the stingray.  

The stingray is a carnivorous animal, meaning that the stingray only feeds on other animals and does not eat plants. The stingray preys on a wide variety of species in the sea including crabs, molluscs, clams, oysters, snails and some species of fish.  

The stingray has few natural predators in it's natural environment mainly due to the large size of the stingray. Stingrays are also able to use their flattened body shape to their advantage by resting on the sea floor and therefore able to hide from predators as well as keep an eye out for potential prey. The main predators of the stingrays are sharks, seals, sea lions and large species of carnivorous fish along with humans.  

Stingrays breed during the winter and the female stingray gives birth to live young usually between 5 and 15 baby stingrays, known as a litter. The baby stingrays develop inside the mother stingray for around 9 months and feed off the remaining yolk in their eggs sacks. When this runs out, the baby stingrays are feed milk in the uterus of the female stingray. When the baby stingrays are born, they are able to swim about and begin hunting with their mother.		 	      

	      The piranha is a type of freshwater fish found in the rivers of the South American jungles. The piranha can be found in nearly every country in South America and the piranha have been appearing more recently in the south of the USA.  

The piranha fish has a single row of razor-sharp teeth with the piranha being most commonly known for their taste for blood. The piranha feeds on fish, mammals and birds alike, with the wholes group of piranhas feeding together in a slight frenzy.  

Despite the carnivorous nature of the piranha, the piranha is actually an omnivore and will eat almost anything that it can find. Piranhas mainly feed on fish, snails, insects and aquatic plants occasionally eating larger mammals and birds that fall into the water.  

Despite it's feared nature, the piranha actually has a number of predators in the wild, including humans that hunt the piranha for food. Piranhas are preyed upon by large predators such as river dolphins (known as botos), crocodiles, turtles, birds and larger fish.   

The piranha is generally around 30cm long but some piranha individuals have been found measuring nearly 80cm. The piranha is said to be more feared by many humans than even a shark.  

Piranhas are generally found in fast flowing rivers and streams where there is plenty of food for the piranha to eat. The piranhas lives together in large shoals and constantly compete for food. Feeding frenzies will be triggered when there is a shortage of food or blood in the water.   

Piranhas tend to breed in pairs in slower water such as lagoons generally during the rainy season around April to May. The mating pair prepare a nest that the female piranha lays clusters of eggs in. The female piranha lays an average of 5,000 eggs and due to the fact that the male piranha and the female piranha defend their protected eggs so effectively, more than 90% often survive and hatch after just a few days.  

In August 2009 a 35cm piranha was found in a river in Devon, thousands of miles from it's native home. The team that discovered the piranha were utterly bewildered as to what this tropical fish was going in a river in England but later deduced that this piranha must have been kept as a pet and then released due to the fact that it was eating sweetcorn. 		 	      

	      The polar regions are the coldest places on Earth and differ the most from every other habitat on the planet. During the summer months, the days receive 24 hours of pure sunshine, but during the winter, the sun is barely seen at all. Animals that inhabit nature's freezers have to be well adapted to living in the cold, and often have a thick layer of fat or blubber to help to keep them warm.  

There are two main polar regions in the world, which are the Arctic and the Antarctic. The Arctic Circle and Arctic Tundra are found at the North Pole, and it covers nearly 5 million square miles of the top of the Northern Hemisphere. The Antarctic is the found at the South Pole, and although the animals are very different here, the polar regions are fairly similar places to live.  

The Arctic is made up of ice floating on the ocean and the Antarctic is a rocky continent covered in ice. There is very little rainfall in the polar regions, mainly because it is so cold, that there is very little water in the air. The main difference between the North and the South Pole is that the Arctic is connected to Europe and Canada, meaning that there are more species of both animals and plants than in the Antarctic which is completely isolated from the rest of the world.  

The warmer spring and summer months in the Arctic Circle encourages the growth of plants and grasses, which draws herbivorous grazing animals further north. Lemmings and Arctic hares can also be found in the tundra, often closely followed by foxes or large Arctic owls. Wolves are the top predators of the Arctic tundra, and polar bears dominate the frozen waters deeper in. Seals, killer whales, sea lions, walruses and narwhals can all be commonly spotted feeding on the fish in the Arctic Circle.  

The animals in Antarctica live on a very carnivorous diet. There are no plants growing on the frozen Antarctic surface so animals must eat other animals in order to survive. Numerous species of fish, crustacean and mollusc inhabit the waters beneath the ice which means that there is plenty of food for carnivorous birds and mammals to eat. Penguins are the most common animal found in Antarctica as there are many species spread across the continent and even further north, that hunt the fish. Larger predators such as leopard seals and killer whales inhabit the water around the frozen islands and huge whales flock to the Antarctic in order to eat the food in the nutrient-rich waters.  

Climate change and global warming have had the biggest impact on the polar regions, as the increasing temperature causes more and more ice to melt. In 1961, the Antarctic Treaty was signed which prevents Antarctica from being commercially exploited. Sadly, protecting the Arctic is a very different case as mining for oil and minerals, fishing and hunting takes place in many areas.
		 	      

	       The spectacled bear is also known as the Andean bear, mainly because the spectacled bear is native to the Andes mountain range of South America. The spectacled bears territory ranges from northwest Argentina, into Peru, Venezuela and Brazil.  

The spectacled bear generally feeds on berries and shoots found both on ground level and in the trees. The spectacled bear also feeds on insects and small mammals and reptiles, and occasionally cattle.   

The spectacled bear is the only surviving species of bear in South America, with the spectacled bears ability to climb tall trees quickly, thought to be the reason for this.  

The spectacled bear tends to be found in the rain forests and jungled areas of the Andes mountains, particularly in the dryer and more forested areas. The spectacled bear is one of the only remaining species of bear that actively hunts during the day. Most species of bear are nocturnal and therefore generally hunt at night.  

The spectacled bear is thought to be non-territorial but the spectacled bear appears to distance itself naturally from other large animals particularly humans. It is because of this that the spectacled bear is not thought to be aggressive when it encounters people and the spectacled bear is therefore reported to be docile yet curious when seeing human beings.   

Like many other species of bear, the spectacled bear mothers have been said to attack people when they believe that their spectacled bear cubs are in danger. Although the spectacled bear is a medium sized bear with the average adult spectacled bear growing to around 1.5 meters tall, an aggravated spectacled bear mother will use all of her bear power and skills to protect her young family.  

The spectacled bear population is thought to be severely under threat and has been decreasing rapidly over recent years. This is because local farmers believe that the spectacled bear kills livestock, the natural habitat of the spectacled bear is ever decreasing, and the gall bladder of the spectacled bear is believed to have medicinal properties in Oriental medicine so the spectacled bear is always under threat from International poaches as well as native poachers. 		 	      

	      The spiny dogfish is one of the most abundant species of shark in the world is also commonly known as the piked dogfish, the codshark and the thorndog. The spiny dogfish is the most well-known of the dogfish species and is also thought to be the most well-researched shark species in the world.  

The spiny dogfish is found worldwide across the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans. The spiny dogfish tends to be be found in the warmer coastal waters although it is not uncommon to spot spiny dogfish hunting in the freezing sub-Antarctic waters.  

The spiny dogfish is a small-sized shark with a grey coloured body that has a light underside and little white spots on the back of the spiny dogfish. The spiny dogfish also has large eyes and a short snout and unlike many other species of shark, the spiny dogfish does has have an anal fin.  

The most distinctive feature of the spiny dogfish are the two spikes found on the back of the spiny dogfish, one spike in front of each dorsal fin. The spikes on the back of the spiny dogfish are mildly poisonous and are mainly used in defence.  

The spiny dogfish is a carnivorous animal and therefore survives on a purely meat-based diet. Fish, squid and crustaceans are the most common meals for the spiny dogfish, but the spiny dogfish is also known to hunt octopus and even other sharks.  

Due to its relatively large size, aggressive nature and poisonous spikes, the only real predators of the spiny dogfish are larger sharks, humans and the occasional killer whale.  

As with some other species of shark, the spiny dogfish does not lays its eggs in the water to hatch, but the spiny dogfish fry instead hatch inside their mother and then emerge into the open ocean. After a gestation period that can last up to 2 years (the longest of any other vertebrate), the female spiny dogfish will produce a little of between 2 and 15 spiny dogfish pups. 		 	      

	      The pheasant is a large sized bird that is found in fields and on the edge of woodland particularly in the Northern Hemisphere. Pheasants are best known for the brightly coloured feathers (in a range of colours) and the long tail feathers of the male pheasant.  

The pheasant is thought to be native to Asia, with some relation to the wild chickens that are found in the jungles particularly in India. Today the pheasant can be found all over the world and there are more than 35 different species of pheasant today.  

Pheasants are large sized birds and some pheasant individuals can grow to nearly 90cm in length. The male pheasant is generally larger than the female pheasant, sometimes double the size. The male pheasant has an array of brightly coloured feathers but the female pheasant (known as a hen) is relatively dull in comparison and tends to be brown or grey in colour.  

Pheasants are omnivorous birds and therefore pheasants eat both plant and animal matter. Pheasants feed on seeds, berries and fruits, insects, worms and occasionally small reptiles such as lizards.   

Pheasants have a number of natural predators in the wild, although the human tends to be the most common predator of the pheasant as they are hunted for their meat and feathers. Other animals that prey on the pheasant are foxes, dogs and wildcats along with smaller species of animal that eat the eggs of the pheasant.  

The female pheasant lays between 8 and 12 eggs per clutch which are generally large in size. The pheasant eggs hatch after an incubation period of just under a month. The pheasant chicks are nursed and fed by the mother pheasant until they fly away from the nest when they are just a few weeks old.  

Although the pheasant is not at immediate risk from extinction, the pheasant populations are declining mainly due to loss of habitat and over-hunting. It is thought that around 80% of the pheasants hunted every year are only a few months old and are therefore unlikely to have mated with another pheasant.		 	      

	      The ostrich is the biggest bird in the world with a male ostrich often growing more than 2 metres tall. The ostrich is also the world's fastest bird on the ground being able to run at speeds of up to 50 mph for short periods of time.  

Despite the fact that the ostrich is a bird, the ostrich cannot fly and instead will run away when threatened. The ostrich weighs more than 100kg which is the main reason as to why the ostrich is unable to fly. The ostrich will also lay flat on the ground to hide from predators.  

The ostrich mainly eats grubs and insects, often found in the ground. The ostrich is well known for putting it's head into the ground to get the bugs in the soil. The ostrich also has a kick so powerful that it can be fatal to most mammals.  

The ostrich is found natively in Africa (and also used to be found in the Middle East) but the ostrich is farmed for it's meat, skin and feathers all around the world.  

The ostrich lays the biggest eggs of any bird species with an ostrich egg generally being more than 10 times bigger than the average chicken egg. Due to its sheer size, the egg of the ostrich is considered a cuisine delicacy in many human cultures.  

There are five different species of ostrich that are generally found around central and eastern Africa. The different species of ostrich are all very similar but vary in size and colour depending on the species of ostrich. The ostrich is most closely related to the Australian emu and the New Zealand kiwi.  

The ostrich is an omnivore and therefore eats a variety of both plants and animals. The diet of the ostrich mainly consists of leaves, grass, seeds, roots, flowers and berries along with insects and occasionally small mammals and reptiles.  

Due to the sheer size and immense power of the ostrich, the ostrich has few natural predators in it's environment. The main predators of the ostrich are lions and cheetahs, and also hyenas and crocodiles if they are able to catch one. Humans are one of the main predators of the ostrich as they hunt the ostrich for it's meat and feathers.  

Ostriches live in herds that usually include the dominant male, his hens (female ostriches) and their young offspring (ostrich babies). During the mating season, the alpha male will make a communial nest around 3 meters wide in the ground for the his female ostriches to lay their eggs in. There are often more than 20 eggs in the nest but it is rare that more than a couple of these eggs actually hatch as they are preyed upon by predators like jackals and hyenas. After an incubation period of around 6 weeks, the ostrich chicks hatch out of their eggs. It is the alpha male ostrich that defends the ostrich chicks from danger and teaches them to feed.		 	      

	      The squid is a marine cephalopod similar to the octopus. Like all other cephalopods, squid have a distinct head, bilateral symmetry, a mantle, and arms. Squid, like cuttlefish, have eight arms and two tentacles arranged in pairs. Some species of squid are known to have 10 arms!  

There are around 300 different species of squid found in the oceans worldwide, with squid being one of the few animals that inhabits the freezing waters of the Antarctic, where they mainly feed on krill and plankton although larger species of squid have also been known to hunt larger prey like fish.  

Most species of squid average at about 20 cm in length when they are fully grown although some species will commonly grow to 60 cm long. The Colossal squid that lives in the deep waters of  the Pacific Ocean has been known to grow to 14 metres long!  

Squid are an excellent and therefore common food source for a variety a different animal species in the water but also those predators on land. Squid predators include sharks, penguins, seals and humans.   

Generally squid will only get to a few years old in the wild before being eaten. Some of the bigger species of squid however, have been known to reach ages of 15 years old.		 	      

	      The Somali is a long-haired Abyssinian cat meaning that its origins lie in Northern Africa. Despite this though, the Somali cat is primarily found and bred across the United States today.  

The Somali cat breed appeared spontaneously in the 1950s from Abyssinian breeding programs when a number of Abyssinian kittens were born with bottle-brush tails and long fluffy coats. Unlike most long-haired cats, Somalis shed very little excess hair.   

Abyssinians and Somalis share the same personality (active, intelligent, playful, curious) and appearance. The only difference between them is the fur length and therefore the amount of grooming required.   

The Somali cat is a popular breed of domestic cat as they are active, playful, curious and affectionate. The Somali cat is known to thrive on the company of other animals including humans and other household pets.  

Despite their elegant appearance and bouncy nature, the Somali cat is known to be prone to having problems with its teeth. As with Abyssinian cats, the Somali cat also shares the same defective kidney gene which is known to be present in at least 5% of all Somali cats. 		 	      

	      The  skunk (also known as the polecat) are most commonly known for their ability to secrete a foul, strong smelling odor from their rear end, when the skunk feels that it is under threat.  

There are 11 known species of skunk in the world, with most of these skunk species inhabiting the American continent. Two of these skunk species are found in Indonesia and the Philippines. The colour of the skunk can vary from the typical black and white to grey, cream and even brown. However all skunks are striped and baby skunks are even born with their striped markings regardless of their colour.  

The average skunk is between 40 and 70cm in height and weighs about the same as a domestic cat. The skunk hunts insects, small birds and mammals. Skunks also commonly eat berries, roots, grasses and fungi in order to supplement their diet.  

Baby skunks are born completely toothless and blind, with the eyes of the baby skunk not opening until the skunk is a few weeks old. The baby skunks are also unable to use their defensive spray when they are first born. The skunks spraying ability develops just before it's eyes open when the skunk is a couple of weeks old.  

Skunks are generally solitary animals and only really come together to breed. In colder regions however, skunks have been known to inhabit communal burrows in order to try to keep each other warm. Most skunks hide in burrows during the day which the skunk digs out with it's long front claws.  

Although skunks have excellent smell and hearing, skunks are known to have very poor vision and can only see objects that are right in front of them. With the introduction of cars, numerous skunks have been killed on the roads as the skunks cannot see the cars coming towards them until it is too late.  

Female skunks usually give birth to their babies in the hotter month of May after a gestation period of a couple of months. The female skunk gigs out a burrow in which to give birth to her skunk babies (kits) and the baby skunks will usually stay with their mother until they are about a year old and are old enough to mate themselves.  



		 	      

	      There are around 2,700 known species of snake worldwide, with the snake being found on every continent apart from the polar regions, where it is too cold for the snake.  

The snake can grow anywhere from 10cm in length, to the enormous anaconda snake that can reach lengths of up to 30ft long! There are two ways that snakes kill their prey, either the snake has a poisonous bite or the snake will wrap itself around the prey to constrict it.  

Most species of snake inhabiting colder regions in the Northern Hemisphere, will hibernate through the cold winter months. The snake tends to mate in the spring time. 		 	      

	      The snowshoe cat is a breed of cat that is thought to have originated in America in the 1960s. The snowshoe is believed to be a mixed breed cat and the snowshoe cat is the result of breeding a Siamese cat with an American shorthair cat.  

The snowshoe cat is generally a fawn to chocolate in colour and has darker coloured markings on its ears, tail and back with white markings on the face, chest and feet.  

The snowshoe cat is seen to be a sturdy cat, with pointed features with lean and muscular features. The elegance of the snowshoe cat has meant that today the snowshoe cat is an increasingly popular breed of domestic cat, despite the fact that the snowshoe can often be relatively small in size.  

The snowshoe cat has soft, thick fur and is well known for its calm and affectionate nature. Although the snowshoe cat has its placid moments, it is also a very active breed of cat, a trait which the snowshoe cat inherits from the curious Siamese cat.   

Snowshoe cats are loving and loyal animals and are not greatly happy when they are left on their own. Snowshoe cats are known to be very vocal animals and enjoy to make themselves heard in the household.		 	      

	      The snowy owl is also known as the Arctic owl or the great white owl. The snowy owl is primarily found within the Arctic Circle with the range of the snowy owl ranging across Canada, Greenland, Europe and Asia. The snowy owl is the official bird of Quebec in the North-east of Canada.  

The snowy owl is one of the largest species of owl in the world, with the average adult snowy owl growing to about 65cm tall with a wingspan of around 140cm. Snowy owls however can be smaller than this, and can even grow to more than 75cm in height.  

Despite the vast range of the snowy owl within the Arctic Circle, it has been reported for snowy owls to travel further south in search of food. Snowy owls have been spotted as far south as Texas in the USA and even in the Caribbean. Snowy owls are also commonly spotted throughout Europe and Asia, from the UK to the southern China.  

Snowy owls make their nests on the ground but they chose their nesting place very carefully. A nest site for the snowy owl must have good visibility so that the snowy owl is able to keep and eye on it's surroundings, and the nest of the snowy owl must also have a good source of food so that the snowy owl does not have leave the nest for long (if at all) in order to eat.  

Snowy owls breed in may and the female snowy owl lays up to 14 eggs although the average clutch size of the snowy owl is about 7. The pure white snowy owls chicks hatch out of the eggs after an incubation period of around 5 weeks. Both the male snowy owl and the female snowy owl parents help to feed and fear their young, and also protect the snowy owl chicks from predators.  

Although snowy owls are omnivores, they have a primarily carnivorous diet. Lemmings and other small rodents such as mice and voles are the main source of food for the snowy owl. Snowy owls are opportunistic hunters meaning that they will take advantage of an opportunity to hunt larger animals. Snowy owls have been known to hunt fish (when they can find them), squirrels, rabbits, rats, birds and even large mammals such as gophers and foxes.  

Like other species of large bird, the snowy owl is known to swallow it's food whole and then regurgitate the bones in the form of a pellet up to 24 hours after feeding. In order to sustain itself, the snowy owl must eat around 5 lemmings or mice every day which is nearly 2,000 in one year.  

The snowy owl is known to have bright white feathers that are often flecked with black and grey. The snowy owl also has large eyes, a sharp, curved beak and large head, along with feathers on it's feet. All of these features of the snowy owl allow the snowy owl is survive as successfully as possible within the Arctic Circle.  

Due to it's large size the snowy owl has few natural predators within it's environment. Humans hunting the snowy owl are the main predators of the snowy owl, along with large foxes, wild dogs and wolves.		 	      

	      The stoat is a small sized mammal, closely related to weasels and ferrets. Stoats are also closely related to otters, badgers and wolverines and stoats share similar characteristics with all of these animals.  

Stoats are found inhabiting a variety of habitats including moorland, woodlands, farms, coastal areas and even mountainous regions across the Northern Hemisphere. Stoats are found across Europe, Asia and North America and stoats are even spotted inside the colder Arctic Circle.  

Stoats are relatively small in size ranging from 18cm to 32cm in height and weighing an average of 200 grams. The stoat has an average lifespan of between 4 and 5 years, although some stoat individuals can be much older and others can die at a much younger age.  

Stoats are solitary animals and are not generally not territorial. The only exceptions for both of these lifestyles are during the breeding season when stoats come together to mate and the female stoats are known to become territorial during this time, probably so that the female stoat is able to protect her young.  

The stoat is a carnivorous animal meaning that the diet of the stoat consists only of other animals. Some stoat individuals however, have been known to eat fruit but these cases have all been observed using stoats that are in captivity. Stoats prey on a number of animals including rodents, fish, eggs, insects, small reptiles and amphibians. The stoats favourite meal however is the rabbit despite the fact that the stoat is generally much smaller than a rabbit. It is for this reason that stoats are often introduced to places in order to control rabbit pest problems.  

As the stoat is small in size, it is preyed up by a number of larger animals in the wild including foxes, dogs, wild cats and large snakes. The stoat is often able to defend itself against smaller sized predators as the stoat has extremely sharp teeth which can issue a nasty and painful bite.  

A female stoat rarely has more than one litter of babies in her short lifetime. Stoats breed in the warmer months of May and June but there is a delayed reaction in the uterus of the female stoat meaning that the embryos don't begin to develop for a number of months. After this time, the baby stoats (known as kits) are born within a month, and the female stoat gives birth to a litter of between 5 and 15 stoat kits.   

The stoat kits are nursed by the mother stoat until they are just over a month old and the baby stoats then begin to learn to hunt. The stoat kits are independent when they are much bigger by the time they are 3 months of age.  

Despite the fact that the stoat is today considered to be a species that is not threatened with extinction, there are concerns regarding the decline in stoat populations due to habitat loss. The stoat has also been hunted by humans over the years mainly for it's fur but also for it's meat.		 	      

	      It is thought that the domestic sheep originated from central Europe and Asia. Today, there are at least 1 billion sheep on the planet, with commercial sheep farming most commonly found in New Zealand, Australia, parts of North America and the United Kingdom.  

Sheep are medium-sized herbivorous mammals that graze on grass and berries. Sheep are mainly farmed for their meat and wool but sheep are also occasionally farmed for their milk (although milking sheep is much rarer than milking goats or cows).  

In England in 2001, there was an outbreak of the foot and mouth virus meaning that thousands of sheep had to be slaughtered. The English sheep population is rising steadily once again and today there are more than 35 million sheep in the English countryside.  

There are nearly 1,300 different species of sheep throughout the world with around 200 of these sheep being domestic sheep. All sheep species tend to be fairly similar in appearance but differ in size and weight depending on the species of sheep. The fleece of the sheep (the sheep's hair or wool) is one of the most widely used and common materials in the world.  

The sheep is most closely related to the goat and although they are very similar, sheep and goats are two separate species of animal therefore meaning that any offspring that a sheep and a goat couple produce will be infertile so sheep and goat hybrids are very rare.  

Wild sheep tend to be larger than commercially farmed sheep or domestic sheep and one species of wild sheep is known to be around 4 ft tall, making the wild sheep a whole foot taller than the average sized domestic sheep. Wild sheep also have much longer horns which they use to defend themselves and wild sheep are also known to be great mountain climbers.  

Due to their vegetarian diet, sheep have a complex digestive system that is made of four chambers, allowing sheep to break down cellulose from stems, leaves, and seed hulls into simpler carbohydrates. The digestive system of a sheep is similar to other animals that have a plant-based diet such as goats, deer and cows.  

Sheep are a target prey for many large carnivorous animals such as dogs, wolves and wild cats. In order to try to protect themselves, sheep keep close together in a flock to make it harder for predators to kill a lone, unsuspecting sheep. In areas where sheep have no natural predators, the sheep are known to not display the flocking characteristics so strongly.  

Most sheep species only breed once a year. Like other herd animals, a number of ewes (female sheep) will mate with just one ram (male sheep). Sheep tend to give birth to their lambs in the springtime so that the lambs have a long period of time to grow before the cold winter sets in. Female sheep tend to give birth to one lamb and sometimes twin. Some species of sheep are known to give birth to larger litters and other species of sheep will also breed all year round rather than just once a year.  

Sheep play an important part in the agricultural economy around the world. Sheep were one of the first animals to be domesticated by humans and sheep are still vital in producing both wool to keep us warm and meat to feed us.		 	      

	      Sloths are tree dwelling mammals that pass their time sleeping and eating. The sloth happily eats both plants and insects, and occasionally small reptiles and birds.  

The sloth is indigenous to the jungles of central and south America, with the general opinion being that the sloth cannot survive outside of this specific habitat.  

The average sloth tends to be around 50 - 60cm long with a short tail of around 7cm in length. The body temperature of the sloth is usually around 30 to 34 degrees celsius (86 to 93 degrees fahrenheit). There are two main species of sloth, the two-toed sloth and the three-toed sloth.  

It is thought that until recent times, larger ground sloths inhabited the jungle floor of both North and South America. As with many animal species around the world, the ground sloth is thought to have become extinct around the same time that human settlers went to these parts of the world.  

Although sloths have an omnivorous diet and eat both plants and animals, the majority of the sloth's diet is made of leaves. Leaves contain very little energy and nutrition so the sloth has adapted to have a large and complex digestive system in order for the leaves to pass through the sloth effectively.  

Sloths have long, sharp claws which they use to get good grip when they are climbing trees or hanging from branches. The sloth is a slow moving animal, and their long claws are the only form of defence that the sloth has. Sloths attack predators or threats by swiping at them with their claws out. Sloths are prey upon by jaguars, large birds of prey, snakes and humans.  

Sloths are thought to be distantly related to animals like anteaters and armadillos. All three belong to a groups of mammals that are thought to have first evolved around 60 million years ago.  

Sloths are solitary animals and only come together to mate. Sloths are known to have a load call, which is thought to increase in frequency during the mating season. After a gestation period of between 4 and 5 months, the female sloth gives birth to a single baby sloth.  		 	      

	      The silver dollar is a medium-sized species of freshwater fish, natively found in the slow-moving rivers of South America. The silver dollar is a very distinctive and easily-recognised species of tropical fish due to it's rounded disk-like body which is a glimmering silver in colour.  

The silver dollar is one of the most popular fish today for tropical fish enthusiasts and is therefore found in artificial aquariums all around the world. The silver dollar originated from the Tapajas River basin, a 12,000 miles long river that runs through Brazil feeding into the great Amazon River.  

The silver dollar is known to be a relatively peaceful species of tropical fish, but they are also known to have an aggressively dominant nature particularly towards smaller fish. These rounded fish are thought to be closely related to the infamous piranha, also found in the rivers of South America, and also not as ferocious, the silver dollar definitely shares some of the piranha's bullying instinct.   

Silver dollar are generally quite sociable find, spending their lives amongst the weeds in the well-vegetated parts of the river where there is a good supply of food and protection from passing predators. Silver dollar gather together in groups known as shoals. which are able to work together to catch larger prey or to try and intimate hungry predators.  

Although omnivorous animals, the silver dollar has a mainly vegetarian diet primarily eating grasses and other aquatic plants in the surrounding water. In the wild, silver dollar also supplement their diet with small invertebrates including insects, worms and spiders.  

Despite their naturally aggressive nature, the small size of the silver dollar coupled with it's glimmering scales means that these fish are preyed upon by numerous species within their natural environment. Birds, large fish and reptiles are the most common predators of the silver dollar in South America.  

The silver dollar is a peaceful schooling species that spends most of its time in the mid- to upper-level of the water and has a maximum lifespan that can be more than 10 years. The female adult silver dollar will spawn around 2,000 eggs. They tend to breed most commonly in soft, warm water in low light.   

Silver dollar are one of the most popular tropical fish to be kept in the globally found fish tanks, however, it is advisable not to keep silver dollar with smaller fish. They are said to live quite happily though in tanks that contain larger fish species such as oscars and catfish.
		 	      

	      Sparrows are a group of small sized birds that are found in woodlands and across farmlands all around the world. Today, there are thought to be 140 different species of sparrow spread throughout almost every continent.  

Historically, the true sparrows were found throughout Europe and in parts of Asia and Northern Africa. However, human travellers that settled on other continents including Australia and America introduced sparrows to these areas, where they are now considered to be part of the native wildlife.  

Sparrows are generally small sized birds that can be easily identified by their smoothly rounded heads. Sparrows range in size from the Chestnut sparrow found in Africa, which is just over 10cm in height, to the Parrot-billed sparrow (also found in Africa) that grows to more than 18cm tall.  

Sparrows are omnivorous birds that mainly eat seeds and substitute their diet with berries, fruits and small insects. Some sparrow species have also adapted to life in the city where like gulls and pigeons, these plump little birds are known to eat almost anything that they can find.  

Due to their small size, sparrows are prey to numerous predators within their native environments all around the world. Cats, dogs, snakes, foxes and birds of prey are just a handful of the natural predators of the sparrow in the wild.  

Sparrows breed when the weather begins to warm in the spring, when female sparrows make nests in trees and rafters in which to lay their eggs (an average of 4-5 are laid per clutch). The female sparrow incubates her eggs which hatch in only a couple of weeks, when the vulnerable chicks are cared for until they are strong enough to fledge (leave the nest)>  

Today, there is little concern over the sparrow populations although it is possible that populations will be affected by the ever changing weather conditions as a result of global warming and therefore, drastic climate change.
		 	      

	      Snapping turtles are large aquatic freshwater reptiles that only live in North America. There are only two species of snapping turtle that still exist, which are the Common Snapping Turtle and the Alligator Snapping Turtle. The Common Snapping Turtle tends to live at higher latitudes than the Alligator.  

Snapping turtles enjoy a wide variety of food and are  often considered the top predator in their environment. The alligator snapping turtle's diet consists mainly of fish, which they lure using a pink worm-like appendage on the end of their tongue. Common snapping turtles are more active hunters and will eat just about anything.  

Snapping turtles do not make good pets, usually, as they will never stop growing. The largest snapping turtles on record have weight records of around 600 lbs. Alligator snapping turtles have been known to grow even larger.   

The Snapping turtle's main defence mechanism is their powerful snapping jaws, which enable them to make short work of attackers and small prey. They also have monstrous, thick claws on their front and back legs which they use to tear apart food and to climb hills each year where they lay their eggs (in a similar way to sea turtles).  

The alligator snapping turtle is the largest freshwater turtle in North America, where it is generally found in the more southern waters of the United States. The smaller and more aggressive common snapping turtle inhabits lakes and streams from South America to Canada.  

Snapping turtles spend nearly all of their lives in water, with typically only nesting females actually venturing onto open land. Snapping turtles can remain submerged underwater for up to three hours at a time.  

Alligator snapping turtles and common snapping turtles have a very different looking appearances. The alligator snapping turtle has a long head and almost spiky shell, where the common snapping turtle has a more rounded head and a smoother shell. They are also easily distinguished by size as the common snapping turtle is smaller than the alligator snapping turtle.  

Snapping turtle mating takes place once a year generally in the spring time. The female snapping turtle can lay anywhere from 10 to 50 eggs which take 3 or 4 months to hatch. It is thought that snapping turtles are capable of living until they are 150 years old but they typically live until they are between 20 and 50 years old in captivity.		 	      

	      The slow worm is a long species of legless lizard found throughout Europe and in parts of Asia, that is often mistaken for a snake due to it's appearance.   

The slow worm inhabits warm, moist and shaded areas across the European continent and is also commonly found in gardens throughout the United Kingdom, as well as meadows and farmland.  

Despite it's snake-like appearance, the slow worm is in fact a lizard but without legs and instead uses the muscles in it's body to move itself around. Slow worms have smooth and shiny skin and a small head in comparison to their body.  

As with other reptiles, the slow worm has a forked tongue which it uses to sense smells in the air. Slow worms also have eyelids which is the main indicator between lizards and snakes (as snakes are commonly known to not have eyelids but lizards do).  

The slow worm is a carnivorous animal meaning that the slow worm only feeds on other animals in order to survive. Slow worms primarily feed on small, slow-moving animals like worms, slugs and snails as well as insects, spiders and other invertebrates.  

Due to it's shiny skin and elongated body, the slow worm is prey to numerous predators within it's natural environment. Cats, dogs, weasels and birds are the most common predators of the slow worm.  

After mating, the female slow worm produces up to 15 eggs which are incubated in her body for a few months. Once developed, the slow worm babies hatch inside their mother meaning that the female slow worm ends up giving birth to live young.  

Today, the slow worm population appears to be thriving in parts of Europe, particularly in Britain where the slow worm is commonly found in back gardens across the country.
		 	      

	      The snail is a small to medium sized mollusc that is generally split into three groups which are land snails, sea snails and freshwater snails. There are nearly 1,000 different species of snail that are spread throughout the world's continents.  

The snail is found on every continent on Earth with the possible exception of Antarctica, although it is thought that there are a number of marine snail species inhabiting the chilly waters that surround the South Pole. Although snails are found across a wide variety of habitats, they are most commonly spotted lunching in areas where there is plenty of vegetation.  

Snails are distinctive animals due to the fact that they have a hard, coiled outer shell when they reach adulthood. All true snails are known to have large protective shells that they are able to retract their bodies into for protection. Snails that do not have a shell are not snails, but slugs.  

In order to break down their food, most snails have thousands of microscopic tooth-like structures located on a ribbon-like tongue called a radula. The radula works like a file, ripping the food into small pieces for the hungry snail.  

Snails are generally herbivores, primarily eating vegetation such as leaves, stems and flowers. Some larger snail species however, are known to be more predatory animals either being omnivores or, in some cases, full-on carnivores.  

Due to their relatively small size, and slow paced movement, snails are preyed upon by numerous animal species all around the world. Rodents, birds and amphibians such as frogs and toads are some of the snail's main predators, and also fish for those snails that are inhabiting marine environments.  

Despite being hermaphrodites (meaning that they possess both male and female reproductive organs), snails have to mate with another snail in order to fertilise their eggs. Up to a month after mating, the snails lays small white eggs into a burrow in the ground or on a covered leaf, which hatch after a couple of weeks. Baby snails can take up to two years to reach full adulthood.  

Today, snails are thriving in some areas of the world but are suffering in others. This can be for a number of reasons which include pollution, habitat loss or changes to the native food chain.		 	      

	      The South China tiger (also known as the Amoy, Chinese or Xiamen tiger) is a smaller-sized subspecies of tiger native to the forests of southern China. The South China tiger is the most critically endangered tiger species with only a handful left in the wild.  

The South China tiger is natively found in the temperate upland forests of southern China, where its once wide range has now been reduced to a few isolated populations, which are said to be found inhabiting the mountainous borders between provinces.  

The South China tiger is one of the smallest species of tiger behind the Sumatran tiger and the Malayan tiger. As with the other smaller sized tiger species, the small size of the South China tiger allows it to move through the dense jungle more easily.   

Like other tiger species, the South China tiger is known to be a strong and capable swimmer, often able to catch its prey when its in the water. This hunting strategy only works however if the South China tiger is faster than the animal it is hunting.   

The South China tiger is a dominant and carnivorous predator, hunting it's prey by stalking it until the South China tiger has the opportunity to catch it off guard. South China tigers primarily hunt larger mammals including deer, wild boar, cattle and goats.  

Due to the size and power of the South China tiger, it has no natural predators in its native environment. Humans that hunt the South China tiger and habitat loss are the only threats to the South China tiger.  

After a gestation period of 3 to 4 months, the female South China tiger gives birth to up to 5 cubs. Newborn South China tiger cubs weigh about 1 kg (2 lb) and are blind and helpless. The mother feeds them milk for about 2 months and then the South China tiger cubs are introduced to meat. South China tiger cubs depend on their mother for the first 18 months and then they start hunting on their own.  

Today, due to habitat loss caused by deforestation, and hunting by human poachers, the South China tiger is considered to be a critically endangered species. The South China tiger is the most critically endangered species of tiger and one of the 10 most endangered animals in the world, as there are thought to be less than 20 South China tigers left in the wild.		 	      

	      The spider monkey is found in the tropical jungles of South America, from Southern Mexico to Brazil. The spider monkey generally dos not enter the further southern regions of South America as the terrain becomes mountainous and not to the spider monkey's taste.  

There are four different types of spider monkey, all of which are fairly large in size and get to around 50cm tall, plus the spider monkey's tail which can often grow longer than the spider monkey's body.  

The spider monkey is thought to get it's name from the way the spider monkeys can be seen hanging in the trees. The spider monkey can often be seen with all four hands on separate branches, so the spider monkey looks like a spider's web. The spider monkey can also hang from branches by it's strong tail, which gives the spider monkey spider-like attributes.   

The spider monkey mainly eats fruits and berries and spider monkeys are a thought to play a vital part in spreading the seeds of many plants throughout the South American rainforests. The spider monkey also eats insects and small reptiles for protein and also honey which the spider monkey finds it.  

Due to the extensive hunting of the spider monkey from both humans and bigger jungle animals such as the jaguar and the crocodile, all four species of spider monkey are now considered to be endangered or critically endangered.   

The spider monkey is often kept as an exotic pet worldwide and is one of the most popular species of pet monkey due to the spider monkey's looks and the spider monkey's character. Please don't keep spider monkeys as pets. Spider monkeys belong in the jungles were they come from and are on the verge of extinction, this process should not be helped.  

Spider monkeys form groups of between 10 and 30 individuals which splits up during the day so that there is less competition for food. Unlike many other primates, it is the female spider monkeys that leave their original group to join new groups, rather than the male spider monkeys. Male spider monkeys are known to stay together throughout their lives.  

Female spider monkeys breed every three to four years and when she is ready to, the female spider monkey chooses a male spider monkey from her group in which to mate with. After a gestation period of around 7 months, the female spider monkey will give birth to one baby spider monkey.  

Baby spider monkeys completely rely on their mother until they are between 6 to 10 months old and are big enough and strong enough to make it on their own. Until then, the mother spider monkey carries her young on her tummy and then on her back in on order to keep them safe. Female spider monkeys are known to help their young when jumping in the trees and groom them too.		 	      

	      Orang-utan Classification and Evolution
The Orang-utan is one of the largest primates in the world and is the only member of the Great Ape family that is found outside of Africa. There are two species of Orang-utan found in the steamy jungles on the islands Borneo and Sumatra which are the Bornean Orang-utan and the Sumatran Orang-utan. The Bornean Orang-utan is more numerous and widespread than it's cousins on Sumatra with three distinct sub-species of Bornean Orang-utan found in differing geographic regions on the island. Orang-utans are one of the closest living relatives to modern Humans and we in fact share 96.4% of our DNA with these forest dwelling apes. The two species are actually so similar in both behaviour and appearance that their name Orang Hutan in their native Malaysian communities, literally means "Person of the Forest". Both species of Orang-utan are today severely affected by Human activity in their native habitats and are listed by the IUCN on their Red List.  
Orang-utan Anatomy and Appearance
The Orang-utan is a large arboreal animal which means that it spends the majority of it's life high in the trees and therefore have evolved some very special adaptations to make living in the forest easier. As the Orang-utan is simply too heavy to leap like a monkey, they use their long arms to swing on the tree branches until they can get close enough to grab onto the next one. The hands and feet of the Orang-utan are both equally effective at grasping onto branches and their opposable thumbs also make their nimble digits very dexterous. The Bornean Orang-utan tends to be slightly larger in size than the Sumatran Orang-utan, which is more lightly coloured along with having a longer beard than it's cousin. Male Orang-utans develop fleshy cheek pads as they mature but these are much more pronounced on the faces of male Bornean Orang-utans, and both species also have a throat pouch that is used to make deep calls that echo through the forest.   
Orang-utan Distribution and Habitat
Although Orang-utans would have once been found on a number of the forested, tropical islands in Indonesia, today they are confined to just two which are the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. Their tree-dwelling lifestyle means that Orang-utans prefer dense tropical forests in the lowlands where there is an ample and varied supply of food. Along with also being found in hillside forests, in valleys and around peat-swamps, there are a number of isolated populations on both islands that are found in the high mountain jungles at much higher altitudes. The Bornean Orang-utan is found in three remaining locations on Borneo but the Sumatran Orang-utan now only inhabits the very northern tip of Sumatra, with the majority of wild individuals being found in just one province. Both species however are severely threatened by the drastic decline of their habitats which have been deforested for timber or cleared for agriculture.  
Orang-utan Behaviour and Lifestyle
There are two big differences between Orang-utans and other Great Apes are the fact that they are solitary and that they spend almost all of their lives high in the trees. The large size of the Orang-utan means that it moves very slowly through the forest but often because they spend so much of their time foraging for and eating fruits in the surrounding trees. They make nests to sleep in at night high in the canopy by folding branches over and padding them out with leaves to ensure a comfortable night. Although they do have their own patches of forest, Orang-utans are not particularly territorial and will even tolerate feeding together around trees that have an abundance of ripened fruits (Sumatran Orang-utans seem to be more sociable than Bornean Orang-utans). Male Orang-utans though will make their presence known by producing loud long-calls using their throat pouches to both intimidate rival males and to attract a female to mate with.  
Orang-utan Reproduction and Life Cycles
After a gestation period that lasts for around nine months, the female Orang-utan gives birth to a single infant in a special nest built high in the trees. Young Orang-utans cling onto their mother's hair to stay secure whilst she is moving through the trees in search of food and are not fully weaned until they are three years old. However, Orang-utans will remain with their mother until they often seven or eight years old as she teaches them the skills they need to survive in the forest. This includes both learning about what plants to eat and where they can be found and also involves them being taught how to use tools such as sticks and leaves to make life easier. The Orang-utan is one of the most slow-developing mammals on the planet that cannot breed itself until it is between 12 and 15 years old. Females tend to have a maximum of three offspring during their life which means that in areas where populations have been affected by hunting or habitat loss, they take a very long time to recover.  
Orang-utan Diet and Prey
The Orang-utan is an omnivorous animal that although does eat a mixture of both plant and animal matter, the majority of their diet is comprised of numerous types of fruit. Their large size and frugivorous nature means that Orang-utans must spend most of their day eating, which is possibly the reason why they have evolved to being semi-solitary animals. Despite the fact that Orang-utans do move throughout large home ranges, they have their own patch of forest nonetheless that tends to contain the perfect amount of food to sustain that individual (or a mother with young). Orang-utans eat both ripe and unripe fruits including mangoes, lychees, durian and figs which grow in abundance in some places and are where a number of individuals may meet up to feed. When there is a good fresh water source the Orang-utan collects it in it's cupped hands then drinks it as it falls, but they don't need to drink too much as they get the majority of the moisture that they need from their food.  
Orang-utan Predators and Threats
Historically, Orang-utans on both Borneo and Sumatra would have been threatened by a number of large, ground-dwelling carnivores which is possibly why they have evolved to lead an almost completely arboreal life. Large felines such as Tigers and Clouded Leopards are the primary predators of the Orang-utan, along with Crocodiles and the occasional large Asian Black Bear. However, due to drastic deforestation in both Malaysia and Indonesia the population numbers of the Orang-utan's predators have fallen drastically with some being even more endangered today than the Orang-utans themselves. Humans are by far the biggest threat to the remaining Orang-utan populations as they have not only destroyed much of their unique forest homeland but also hunt and capture the young that are then sold into the exotic pet trade.  
Orang-utan Interesting Facts and Features
The Orang-utan is a very distinctive animal in the tropical Indonesian forests with it's bright, red and orange hair leading to it also being known as the Red Ape. The Orang-utan is not only the largest tree-dwelling animal in the world, but it is also one of the most intelligent. In order to make the most of the seasonal changes in the tropical rainforest, Orang-utans are known to make a mental map of where the different fruit trees are and when they will bare their ripened fruits. Like a number of other Great Apes, Orang-utans are also known to use tools to facilitate their lives in their jungle, often using sticks and branches to collect honey from bee hives or extract ants and termites from inside hollow trees. Although the exact tool skill -set seems to depend on individual populations they are really quite remarkable, with some Orang-utans actually known to use large leaves as an umbrella to keep the worst of the rain off, and also put smaller leaves on the soft pads of their hands and feet to protect them in thorny vegetation.   
Orang-utan Relationship with Humans
Since the arrival of modern Humans in the Indonesian Archipelago roughly 40,000 years ago, Orang-utan numbers throughout south-east Asia have been declining. Once also found on the island of Java, Orang-utans are extinct throughout much of their natural range today due to both hunting and habitat loss. Originally hunted for their meat, things became more sinister in the 1800s when Orang-utans were in higher demand from zoos around the world and infants were captured to be sold to them. Things were only made worse with the boom in the trade of exotic pets, with mother Orang-utans often being killed trying to prevent their young from being captured by people. The biggest threat to Orang-utans though is habitat loss in the form of deforestation for the often illegal logging of tropical timbers, and the land clearance for the ever increasing palm oil industry.   
Orang-utan Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, both Orang-utan species are listed by the IUCN as animals that are severely under threat in their natural environments with the Bornean Orang-utan being listed as Endangered and the Sumatran Orang-utan as Critically Endangered. With up to 15,000 Bornean Orang-utans and 5,000 Sumatran Orang-utans thought to remain in the diminishing rainforests, the situation is only getting worse and despite their legal protection, an estimated 5,000 Orang-utans are killed every year. A number of rehabilitation and reintroduction projects exist on both Borneo and Sumatra some of which have shown success. A population of young that were confiscated from the illegal pet trade have been introduced into one of Sumatra's national parks which have been known to be successfully breeding, with the population now totalling 70 members. If nothing continues to be done though about their dwindling habitats, it been estimated that Orang-utans will be extinct from the wild within the next 10 years. 
		 	      

	      Patas Monkey Classification and Evolution
The Patas Monkey is a medium to large sized species of Old World Monkey that is found inhabiting the open grasslands of Central Africa. Also known as the Military Monkey, the Hussar Monkey and the Red Guenon, the Patas Monkey is the only member of it's genus due to the fact that it has long limbs and short digits which are adaptations that enable it to run at great speed (something that other Guenon species do not have). Thought to be closely related to Vervet Monkeys the Patas Monkey is found in areas with little cover and simply runs away if threatened. Their long back legs are so powerful that they are able to reach speeds of up to 35mph making them the fastest primates in the world. Due to the fact that Patas Monkeys are found in more open areas, they have not been as affected by deforestation in the same way as many other primates.  
Patas Monkey Anatomy and Appearance
The Patas Monkey has a long and slimly built body covered in shaggy fur, which is white in colour on the underside and red on the back. Their long and powerful limbs are also white while their face is dark with a white moustache and beard, and a red cap with a heavy brow ridge that protects their eyes. They also have a distinctive black line that runs from the face up to the ear. Although male and female Patas Monkeys do look remarkably similar, the males tend to be larger in size and have a slight bump that protrudes from their head. Their lengthy limbs, hands and feet coupled with their short fingers and toes make them very adept at running at fast speeds across the open plains.   
Patas Monkey Distribution and Habitat
The Patas Monkey is natively found in a broad band throughout Central Africa that is bordered by the Sahara Desert to the north and the moist tropical conditions of the equatorial forests to the south. They can be found as far west as Senegal to Ethiopia in the east and as far south as Tanzania in the east and Cameroon in the west. Patas Monkeys inhabit savanna plains, open woodlands and grass steppe that is well vegetated. They are known to be quite adaptable animals that are also found in arid areas including the southern fringes of the Sahara Desert, flooded deltas and even in moist forest where land has been cleared by people. Due to the fact that Patas Monkeys rely more on the open country than they do dense jungle, they have even been able to move into areas that have been affected by deforestation and can also be found in agricultural plantations.  
Patas Monkey Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Patas Monkey is a sociable animal that is found in troops of between 10 and 40 members with only one older, dominant male and the rest being females with their young. Unlike numerous other primate communities, Patas Monkey troops are led by the females who protect their home ranges from intrusion by other troops. Although the males will not usually get involved in these disputes they will sometimes sound a loud warning call to intimidate the rival group. The role of the male Patas Monkey is not only to breed with the females in the group but also to protect them from danger. Males linger on the outskirts of the troop and watch out for approaching danger, acting as a decoy to predators so the females and the young are able to run off and hide. However, despite spending time around them, there is little interaction between males and females outside of the breeding season.  
Patas Monkey Reproduction and Life Cycles
Patas Monkeys are able to reproduce at age three for females and between four and five years old for males. They have strict mating seasons which coincide with the winter months either from June to September or October to January depending on the geographic location. After a gestation period that lasts for around five months a single infant is born that is nursed and cared for by it's mother. Patas Monkeys become independent of their mother when they reach breeding age when males will leave the troop to either join an all-male juvenile group or will become solitary, until they are dominant enough to challenge older males for positions in troops with females. Young females however, remain in their natal group and will stay close to their mother for their whole lives.   
Patas Monkey Diet and Prey
The Patas Monkey is an omnivorous animal that consumes a wide range of both plant matter and small animals in order to survive. They primarily feed on Acacia fruits, galls and leaves along with other seasonal fruits, flowers and tree gum. Patas Monkeys are also known to eat insects, lizards and birds' eggs along with raiding crops where they are often known to cause damage to the crops themselves. Due to their predominantly terrestrial nature, more than 85% of their food is thought to be collected on ground-level. Depending on where the local population lives water can sometimes be limited which can cause conflict between rival troops as they gather at water-holes to drink. Those populations however, that are found in the flood-lands have less conflict between each other for water.  
Patas Monkey Predators and Threats
Although comparatively little is known about the predation of Patas Monkey relative to similar species, it is generally thought that due to their size, they are preyed upon by numerous carnivores that share their habitats. Wild cats such as Leopards, Cheetahs and Lions are probably their most common predators along with Hyena, African Wild Dogs, Snakes and large Birds of Prey that hunt the smaller and more vulnerable young. They are also hunted by people for meat throughout much of their natural range but the biggest threat to Patas Monkey populations is thought to be the capture of them for sale either into the exotic pet trade or to science for medical research.  
Patas Monkey Interesting Facts and Features
The smart red coat and solider-like white moustache of the Patas Monkey has led to them also being commonly known as "Military Monkeys". Despite the fact that deforestation has been devastating for numerous primates not just in Africa but around the world, it has in fact provided more and more suitable areas for Patas Monkeys to inhabit. As they have evolved to life with very little cover, areas of forest that have been cleared by people have led to them being found in regions such as moist forest that they would not normally inhabit. When they are born, young Patas Monkeys are light brown all over and have pink coloured faces, which darken by the time they are about two months old.  
Patas Monkey Relationship with Humans
Native people have hunted the Patas Monkey for meat throughout much of their vast natural range for years but they are also hunted for capture and sale into the exotic pet trade and to be sold to medical research. It is estimated that over 1,000 individuals are caught every year which is leading to population declines particularly in certain areas. In others where Human settlements are encroaching further and further into their natural habitats, Patas Monkeys have been known to strip crops, raid plantations for food and simply destroy others which has led to farmers often seeing them as pests. Many Patas Monkeys are shot by people who see them close to or on their land.  
Patas Monkey Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Patas Monkey is listed by the IUCN as a species that is of Least Concern from becoming extinct in the wild in the near future. However, due to the fact that the global population is not particularly large anyway, increased conservation of the species needs to occur to prevent populations from declining any further. There are 18 national parks and 11 reserves where Patas Monkeys can be found with some measures having been put into place to try and limit the number of individuals that can be captured from the wild.
		 	      

	      Proboscis Monkey Classification and Evolution
The Proboscis Monkey is a medium-sized arboreal primate that is found exclusively in the rainforests of Borneo. The male Proboscis Monkey is not only one of the largest monkeys in Asia but they are also one of the world's most distinctive mammals, having a long and fleshy nose and a large, swollen stomach. Although having slightly larger noses and a protruding stomach are defining of the Colobine (Leaf) Monkey family, these features on the Proboscis Monkey are more than double the size of their closest relatives. The Proboscis Monkey today however, is extremely threatened in it's natural environment with deforestation having a devastating impact on the unique habitats were the Proboscis Monkey is found.  
Proboscis Monkey Anatomy and Appearance
The male Proboscis Monkey is significantly larger than the female measuring up to 76cm in height and weighing more than 20kg, both having a long tail which can easily be the same length as the body, which is used to help the Proboscis Monkey to balance whilst it is leaping through the trees. Adults are mainly pale orange to light brown in colour with a richer coloured head and shoulders and grey limbs and tail, and a light pink face. The protruding nose of the Proboscis Monkey develops with age with infants having more monkey-like noses and older mature males having larger and more bulbous ones. Although scientists are still unsure as to exactly why the nose of the Proboscis Monkey grows so big, it widely believed to be to do with attracting a female mate as the noses of females are much smaller.   
Proboscis Monkey Distribution and Habitat
The Proboscis Monkey is natively found on the island of Borneo where it was once fairly widespread (with the exception of central Sarawak) throughout the coastal mangrove forests. The Proboscis Monkey inhabits very unique habitats and is most commonly found in mangrove swamps, but is also known to inhabit coastal mangroves, riverine forests and lowland rainforest providing that there is a good source of fresh water. Due to their leaf-eating diet, the Proboscis Monkey has also managed to exploit a niche within these wetland forests and are the largest mammals found inhabiting the higher levels of the canopy. These rare regions however, have been heavily affected by deforestation meaning that Proboscis Monkey populations are becoming more isolated as they will avoid cleared forest or populated areas.  
Proboscis Monkey Behaviour and Lifestyle
The Proboscis Monkey is an incredibly sociable animal that inhabits the surrounding mangroves in troops that contain between 2 - 30 individuals and are comprised of a dominant male, with up to 10 females and their young. Female Proboscis Monkeys tend to lead the searches for food and care for the young and the male defends his troop by making loud honking sounds and showing his teeth. Proboscis Monkey troops are known to congregate together though when close to water or in an area where food is in abundance, along with at night when troops rest and sleep in the safety of the mangroves close to the water's edge. Due to the fact that the Proboscis Monkey requires a good fresh water supply such as a swamp or river, they are excellent swimmers and are known to travel across very deep areas to find food or to escape approaching danger.  
Proboscis Monkey Reproduction and Life Cycles
Female Proboscis Monkeys give birth to a single infant after a gestation period that lasts for around five and a half months, which has dark coloured fur and a blue face and will not develop it's adult colouration until it is 3 or 4 months old. Young Proboscis Monkeys are cared for not just by their mother but also by the other adult females in the troop, and will remain with their mother until they are nearly a year old when young females tend to stay with the troop and young males will leave to join a group of bachelor males. Although Proboscis Monkey troops tend to remain fairly stable, it is not uncommon for both males and females to move to another troop. Proboscis Monkeys tend to live for up to 20 years in the wild and are not able to reproduce until they are at least four years old.  
Proboscis Monkey Diet and Prey
Although the Proboscis Monkey is technically an omnivorous animal, the bulk of their diet is comprised of tough mangrove leaves which are pulled from the surrounding trees. It is because of the fact that they are leaf-eating monkeys, that the Proboscis Monkey has a large and swollen stomach that is made up of chambers containing a special cellulose digesting bacteria that helps to break down the leaves. This is however, a very slow process and means that the Proboscis Monkey's stomach is often full and can contain up to a quarter of the individual's total body weight. The Proboscis Monkey supplements it's diet by eating other plant matter including shoots, seeds and unripe fruits along with a passing insect on occasion and does so predominantly in the trees, preferring not to come down to the ground.   
Proboscis Monkey Predators and Threats
Due to the large size and almost entirely tree-dwelling lifestyle of the Proboscis Monkey they have very few actual predators in their natural environment, with the exception of Clouded Leopards that hunt the Proboscis Monkey when it is forced to be on the ground. They are also preyed upon by Crocodiles whilst in the water but Humans are the biggest threat to this unique animal. Not only have Proboscis Monkeys lost vast areas of their natural habitats to deforestation but they have also not adapted well to living close to Human activity and are therefore being pushed into smaller and more isolated pockets of their native regions.   
Proboscis Monkey Interesting Facts and Features
The Proboscis Monkey spends the majority of it's life very close to water and is an adept swimmer, aided by it's partially webbed feet which help it to both paddle in the water and walk on the slippery banks. The Proboscis Monkey is very agile whilst in the trees and is also known to leap into the water from heights of up to 50ft! The nose of the male Proboscis Monkey can grow so big that it hangs down over it's mouth and has to be pushed aside to eat, however, when calling the nose straightens up and is thought to make the monkey's sound echo louder to both impress mature females and to intimidate rival males in the area. The large nose of the male Proboscis Monkey is also known to become red and swollen when the individual is either angry or excited.  
Proboscis Monkey Relationship with Humans
The Proboscis Monkey was once hunted by local people as they are seen as a culinary delicacy in some areas, but today the capture and killing of these distinctive animals is forbidden and has helped this situation slightly. However, people have had a far bigger impact on the Proboscis Monkey through the deforestation of it's natural habitat mainly for logging, growing Human settlements and to clear land for palm oil plantations, which has led to drastic population declines in the species over the past couple of decades particularly. They are however, of great fascination to many people around the world and have generated tourism interests in certain areas.   
Proboscis Monkey Conservation Status and Life Today
Today, the Proboscis Monkey is listed by the IUCN as an animal that is Endangered in it's natural environment and could face extinction in the near future if better conservation measures are not put into place. Population numbers are thought to have dropped by up to 80% over the past 30 years with numbers continuing to decrease. There are thought to be around 7,000 Proboscis Monkeys left in the wild today and very few are found in captivity as they simply do not respond well to the artificial conditions. 
		 	      

	      Grasslands (also known as prairies and savanna) are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses and other herbaceous (non-woody) plants. Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica and as flowering plants, grasses grow in great concentrations in climates where annual rainfall ranges between 500 and 900 mm.   

The grassland habitat is often greatly dependent on the region in which it is found, as grasslands differ from one another around the world. In temperate areas, such as north-west Europe, grasslands are dominated by perennial (year-round) species, whereas in warmer climates it is the annual plant species that form a greater part of the vegetation.  

Grasslands are found in most climates but the grassland vegetation can vary in height from very short (less than 30cm (12in) high) to quite tall. Woody plants, shrubs or trees may occur on some grasslands - forming savanna, scrubby grassland or semi-wooded grassland, such as the vast African savanna plains. Some grasslands are sometimes referred to as wood-pasture or woodland.  

Grasslands cover nearly fifty percent of the African land surface and grasslands in general support a diverse amount wildlife. Numerous species of insects, small mammals, birds and reptiles can be found inhabiting areas of grassland around the world, along with various different species of large herbivorous mammals such as cows.  

Due to the open and uncovered nature of grassland, predators are much easier to spot, giving the smaller animals that chance to run away and hide. Given the lack of hiding places for predators, the African savanna regions support a much greater diversity of wildlife than the temperate grasslands do.  

It is thought that grassland once covered nearly two thirds of land on Earth. Grasslands have changed rapidly due to agriculture and farming and today, only a small area of grassland still contains its original animals and vegetation.
		 	      

	      The sea otter is a small marine mammal native to the north and eastern coasts of the Pacific Ocean. Despite the fact that sea otters are the largest members of the weasel family, sea otters are among the smallest mammals in the marine world.  

The sea otter is known to have one of the thickest, warmest coats of fur in the animal kingdom which helps to keep the sea otter warm in the cold waters of the North Pacific. Like their smaller river otter cousins, the sea otter is able to walk and live on the land but it is not uncommon for sea otters to spend their lives exclusively in the water.  

Sea otters are omnivores as they do eat seaweed and other aquatic plants. Despite this though, most sea otter individuals have a primarily carnivorous diet with sea otters known to eat more than 40 different species of marine animals. The sea otter mainly hunts sea urchins, clams, crabs, snails and small fish in the water. The sea otter is one of the few animals in the world that has the remarkable trait of using tools, such as rocks, in order to get at it's prey.  

Sea otters have few natural predators in the sea due to their large size. Those sea otters that live further south are mainly preyed upon by the great white shark and those sea otters that inhabit more northern regions of the Pacific, are preyed upon by killer whales. Humans are one of the sea otters main predators as sea otters are hunted mainly for their incredibly dense fur.   

Sea otters are today considered to be an endangered species are they were extensively hunted for their fur in the 18th century which meant that sea otter populations took a devastating plunge and sea otters became rarer and rarer. There are estimated to be less than 2,000 sea otter individuals left in the wild today.  

There are three different species of sea otter that are recognised by science today. The common sea otter (also known as the Asian sea otter) is the largest of the tree sea otter subspecies and is found around the islands in the Western Pacific. The southern sea otter (also known as the Californian sea otter) is found off the coast of California and is known to have a narrow head and small teeth. The northern sea otter is native to Alaska and the North West of the Pacific. The northern sea otter was wiped out from the coast of British Columbia due to over hunting but has been recently reintroduced to Vancouver Island.  

Unlike other marine mammals, the sea otter does not have a layer of blubber to keep it warm, so the sea otter has to rely on it's dense fur to keep the cold out. The fur of the sea otter is so thick that no water actually touches the skin of the sea otter. The sea otter's fur also consists of two layers, a waterproof layer of long guard hairs with a layer of short thick fur underneath.  

Although sea otter hunt and forage for food on their own, sea otters are often seen resting together in large single-sex groups known as rafts. Typically, the average sea otter raft consists of between 10 to 100 sea otter individuals, with the largest recorded sea otter raft containing nearly 2,000 sea otter individuals.  

Sea otters are known to mate all year round, but the southern sea otter is known to mate every year, which is twice as often as the northern sea otter. After a gestation period of up to a year, the mother sea otter gives birth to a single sea otter although twins are known to occur. Mother sea otters are known to nurse their pups for up to a year, by which time, the sea otter pups are able to hunt and forage for food by themselves.		 	      

	      The Pekingese dog is over 2000 years old and has hardly changed in all that time. One exception is that modern breeders and dog-show judges seem to prefer the long-haired type over the more-traditional spaniel-type coat.  

The Pekingese, when lifted, is surprisingly heavy for its size. It has a stocky, muscular body. All weights are correct within the limit of 14 pounds. Disqualification: Weight over 14 pounds. Proportion - Overall balance is of utmost importance. The head is large in proportion to the body. The Pekingese is slightly longer than tall when measured from the forechest to the buttocks. The overall outline is an approximate ratio of 3 high to 5 long.		 	      

	      The penguin is found pretty much only in the Southern Hemisphere, only a handful of penguins though are in the far south. The emperor penguin inhabits the icy lands of Antarctica.  

Despite what many think, the penguin is not only found in arctics, one species of penguin lives as far north as the Galapagos Islands.  

Generally the penguin is around 1m tall, but one species, known as the fairy penguin, that only 40m high! The penguins stay together in large colonies with anywhere up to 50,000 penguins in the group.  

The penguin spends 75% of its time in the water hunting for food. It is thought that the Antarctic penguins eat krill and squid where the penguins in warmer climates tend to eat fish.  

The penguin is one of the few species of bird, that despite having wings, is unable to fly. To make up for this though, penguins have perfected their jumping technique with some penguins being able to jump a couple of meters!   

Penguins seem to have no special fear of humans and penguins have often approached groups of explorers without hesitation. This is probably because there are no land predators in Antarctica or the nearby offshore islands that prey on or attack penguins. Instead, penguins are at risk at sea from predators such as the  seal and sharks.  

Typically, penguins do not approach humans closer than about 3 meters (10 ft) at which point the penguins tend to become nervous and retreat. This is also the distance that Antarctic tourists are told to keep from penguins (tourists are not supposed to approach closer than 3 meters, but are not expected to withdraw if the penguins come closer). It is the penguins home after all.		 	      

	      Sponges are very slow-moving animals that are found across the sea floor. Although many sponges actually move less than a millimetre a day, some adult sponges are actually sessile, which means that they are fixed onto something and do not move at all.  

Sponges are thought to have evolved around 500 million years ago, and today there are more than 5,000 known species of sponge with another 5,000 species thought to have not yet been discovered. Most sponges live in a salt water environment, attached to objects on the sea floor. Less than 200 sponge species inhabit freshwater habitats.  

The body of the sponge is made up of a jelly-like substance that is supported by a thin layer of cells on either side. The body of the sponge contain thousands of pores which allow water to keep flowing through it.  

Sponges have no organs, and obtain their nutrition from the water that is continuously flowing through them. Sponges can be found in variety of different sizes and shapes tubes, fans, cups, cones and blobs.  

Sponges are omnivorous animals that obtain their nutrition from the food particles in the water. Sponges primarily eat bacteria, phytoplankton and bits out of the water. A number of sponge species are known to have a more carnivorous diet, eating small fish and crustaceans on the reefs.  

Due to the abundance and variety of sponges, they are preyed upon by many animals. The fact that sponges move so slowly, if at all, means that they cannot avoid being eaten. Sea turtles, crustaceans, fish and echinoderms all prey on sponges.  

Sponges are hermaphrodites, which means that they have both male and female reproductive organs. Fertilisation occurs inside many sponges, and sometimes externally when sperm are released into the water. The tiny sponge larvae are able to move through the water and eventually settle on the sea floor as they get bigger, and begin to move very little.		 